LUNAR SHIFTING KNACKS


FORM ACQUISITION KNACKS: ANIMAL

HUMBLE MOUSE SHAPE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Stamina 3
This Knack teaches a character the proper ritual to begin a sacred hunt for smaller animals. Normally, a Lunar cannot master a shape smaller than a housecat. Now, creatures as small as a mouse become valid targets for the blood hunt. The hunt typically takes about half as long for creatures of this size. This Knack expands the range of possible spirit shapes for a starting character.

EMERALD GRASSHOPPER FORM
Corebook
Prerequisites: Humble Mouse Shape, Essence 3, Stamina 4
A character with this Knack can become the literal fly on the wall. Creatures as small as the typical housefly become valid targets for the blood hunt (though some Lunars feel a bit silly spending six hours stalking an insect).

TOWERING BEAST FORM
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Stamina 3
Lunars without this Knack cannot master shapes any larger than something about the size of an adult moose. With it, even creatures as large as yeddim and tyrant lizards become valid targets of the sacred hunt. This Knack expands the range of possible spirit shapes for a starting character.

MOUNTAINOUS SPIRIT EXPRESSION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Towering Beast Form, Essence 3, Stamina 4
Lunar Exalted who take this Knack increase the size of their spirit shape. The size increase requires no extra effort—the Lunar’s animal true form doubles in size. Strength, Stamina and health levels may increase, if appropriate, as if the spirit form carried the Large mutation. Many Lunars never choose this Knack, especially those with small or subtle spirit shapes. Some Lunars choose to increase the size of their totem forms further, creating custom Knacks for the purpose.

ILLIMITABLE BEAST DECLARATION
Lords of Creation
Prerequisites: Emerald Grasshopper Form or Towering Beast Form, Essence 5, Stamina 5
Lunars who develop this Knack for their shape shifting know no limit to the size of natural animals they may hunt. It extends the capabilities of Emerald Grasshopper Form into the infinitesimal, so there is no natural animal too small. It likewise improves Towering Beast Form into the infinite, so no natural animal is too large. If the Lunar cannot hunt a natural animal that is larger than the Last Supplicant or smaller than the head of a pin, it is not because he lacks the ability—it is because the animal does not exist.
A character without Emerald Grasshopper Form is limited to infinitely larger forms and one without Tow­ering Beast Form is limited to infinitely smaller forms. Possessing small forms, such as a flea or a tiny krill, add 3 or more to the Lunar's DVs (though also probably make parrying impossible). Lunars who take enormous forms also learn to absorb massive amounts of damage, as suc­cessfully evading an attack becomes increasingly unlikely with growing size.

EMPEROR OX EXPANSION
Lords of Creation
Prerequisites: Mountainous Spirit Expression, Essence 5, Stamina 5
Lunars with this Knack crush their opposition with the sheer might of a massive spirit shape. The character spends a point of Willpower when donning her spirit shape to make it large enough to engage in mass combat as a unit with a Magnitude equal to the Lunar's Essence. Represent the Lunar's size outside of mass combat by increasing her Strength and soak by an amount equal to her Essence.
Assuming the Emperor Ox Expansion form takes time. The Speed of the shapeshifting action is measured in long ticks, and even a Lunar using Lightning-Change Style re­quires one long tick to activate Emperor Ox Expansion.

BECOMING THE SWARM
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Emerald Grasshopper Form, Essence 4, Dexterity 4 
This Knack enables the Lunar to subdivide his body into a swarm of lesser creatures. These creatures individually may be no larger than a rat. The Lunar is free to mix and match different types of creatures in the swarm, but if he wishes to use unconventional forms of locomotion (such as flight or crawling up walls) all creatures comprising the swarm must be capable of such movement. 
The swarm encompasses an area (Stamina x 2) yards in diameter and retains all of the Lunar’s usual Attributes and Abilities. The only attack it is capable of is a clinch (Accuracy +4, Damage +[Essence]L, Defense —, Rate 1, Tags C,N,P). In lieu of crushing the target, a swarm consisting primarily of venomous animals may instead inflict a toxin on the victim during a successful clinch, equivalent to arrow frog venom (see Exalted, p. 131). The swarm treats all attacks against it as unblockable, but adds an amount equal to half the character’s Dexterity to its Dodge DV against attacks that are not large enough to encompass the entire swarm.

HUNGRY ALL-CONSUMING CLOUD 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Becoming the Swarm, Emperor Ox Expansion, Essence 5, Dexterity 6 
By paying an extra point of Willpower, the Steward may expand his swarm form into an allencompassing plague that sweeps across the land, stripping crops and flesh alike bare in moments. The rules for swarm composition and movement are identical to Becoming the Swarm. 
The cloud covers an area (Stamina x 20) yards in diameter. Characters trapped within are subjected to an ongoing environmental attack with a Damage of (Strength)L/action and a Trauma of 2. If the cloud consists primarily of venomous animals, the Lunar may inflict a poison equivalent to arrow frog venom rather than damage during each damage interval. The Lunar is immune to any attack that encompasses less than one-fifth of his total mass (any sufficiently large attack is considered unblockable). The only action he can take as a swarm cloud is a special “apply environmental damage” miscellaneous action (Speed 5, DV -1) that leaves him able to observe his surroundings, apply his Dodge DV and move. (This miscellaneous action may not be part of a flurry.) Three motes must be paid on each action in order to sustain this form.

TYRANT MOUSE DOMINION 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Emerald Grasshopper Form, Mountainous Spirit Expression, Essence 4, Stamina 4 
This Charm permanently enhances all of the shapes in a Lunar’s Heart’s Blood library, offering several benefits. First, the Steward may optionally choose not to apply the benefit of Mountainous Spirit Expression to his spirit shape when he assumes that form. Second, upon assuming any animal form from his Heart’s Blood library (but not human or supernatural forms), he may pay an extra mote to apply the Small mutation, creating the potential for horse-sized tyrant lizards or pocket-dwelling falcons. Finally, the Lunar may optionally pay an extra mote to apply the Large mutation to any animal form in his Heart’s Blood library, with effects identical to Mountainous Spirit Expression.

TITAN MENAGERIE METHOD 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Emperor Ox Expansion, Tyrant Mouse Dominion, Essence 5, Stamina 6 
This Knack permits a Lunar to spend an extra point of Willpower to apply the benefits of Emperor Ox Expansion to any animal form in his Heart’s Blood library.

GOD-BEAST TRANSCENDENCE 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Emperor Ox Expansion, Essence 10, Stamina 10 
This Knack enhances Emperor Ox Expansion. By adding an extra two-Willpower surcharge on top of the one-Willpower cost to invoke that Knack, the Lunar may swell his spirit shape into a sanity-defying behemoth, able to darken cities with its shadow and crush buildings with its tread. The Yozi Isidoros is said to consider the very existence of this Knack an affront to his majesty. 
In addition to Emperor Ox Expansion’s normal benefits, the Lunar also adds (Essence x 10) to his Strength for the purpose of inflicting damage, performing feats of strength and gaining control of or escaping (but not establishing) a clinch. It also adds (Essence x 10) to his Stamina for the purpose of determining soak. He also gains a natural Hardness equal to half his modified natural lethal and bashing soak, respectively. These benefits apply in both standard and mass combat.
The Lunar accumulates one point of Limit at the end of each scene in which this Knack is employed.

FORM ACQUISITION KNACKS: HUMAN

PREY’S SKIN DISGUISE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Appearance 3
This Knack enables the Lunar to take the form of another human (or basically human creature). She develops an instinctive understanding of the different sacred hunt necessary to make humans valid targets of the hunt. Taking on a false human shape costs a point of Willpower.
The base time of the hunt is half a day, during which time the character studies the person’s habits and nature, absorbing them the same way she will steal the person’s body. Some Lunars watch their victims covertly during the process; others hunt the target viciously, tormenting him and studying his reactions until the final blow. The latter method is faster but more difficult to perform in high-population areas. Either way, it’s murder (unless the Lunar has Life of the Hummingbird and merely takes a person’s shape temporarily). Taking a human’s Heart’s Blood triggers a Compassion roll in any character with Compassion 3 or greater, and each success adds one point of Limit to the Lunar’s total, no matter what his dominant Virtue may be.
Lunars pursue human forms for many reasons: Having even a single human false form is useful when one’s true form becomes dangerous and an animal shape is inappropriate. Some human forms are useful for their identities—becoming Great Forks’ Minister of Lore is a significant advantage.
Finally, different human forms may have access to different resources. Stealing a wealthy merchant’s form gives the character a lot of money to throw around, and becoming a friendly socialite comes with a host of contacts and allies. Lunar Exalted may benefit from these stolen Backgrounds temporarily, but they require effort to maintain—otherwise, the investments dry up, and friends forget about the person who is no longer often around.
Exalted and other human creatures may have Charms and other powers of their own. Taking on one’s form through the sacred hunt does not give the Lunar access to any of their Essence-based powers. Taking a Lunar’s form in this way provides only the Lunar’s human true form, not the spirit shape or any other form the victim might know. For that, a character needs Taste of Luna’s Champions.

HONING THE STOLEN FORM
Corebook
Prerequisites: Prey’s Skin Disguise, Essence 3, Perception 4
Heart’s Blood forms generally do not change with time. Just as they do not age, neither do they grow stronger, fatter or weathered from experience. This Knack allows a character to increase stolen human forms’ physical Attributes just as she can increase her own. Increasing a stolen human form’s Attributes costs the same amount of experience as to increase the character’s own. The change is permanent.

INTIMATE TRAINING RECOLLECTION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Prey’s Skin Disguise, Essence 3, Intelligence 3
With practice, a Lunar can learn to consume a bit of a human’s mind and soul along with his body. This Knack creates one “floating” Ability dot. Each scene, the Lunar can allocate this dot to an Ability held by a human whose form the Lunar took, but that he himself lacks. If a Lunar also has Life of the Hummingbird, he can access the Abilities of a person whose shape the Lunar has temporarily stolen. The “floating” Ability dot cannot be raised through training (though the character could train himself, using the stolen memories, to gain his first dot in an Ability) and cannot be added to Abilities the Lunar has already. Calling up an Ability this way costs one Willpower per scene.
At Essence 5 and Intelligence 5, a Lunar can buy this Knack again to gain two “floating” Ability dots. These cannot stack: Each point must carry a different Ability. Linguistics or Craft are special exceptions: The character could assign the dots to two different languages or gain one dot each in two different crafts, such as Craft (Air) and Craft (Wood).
See also Lessons in the Blood (p. 189), which does something similar.

FLICKERING STAR INFUSION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Honing the Stolen Form, Intimate Training Recollection, Essence 4, Manipulation 4
When one of the Lunar Exalts hunts a person and adds that body to the Lunar’s library of forms, the victim’s star flickers out and dies. Victims of the sacred hunt become invalid targets for astrology and other effects that target them by name or specific identity. Lunars occasionally find this weakness in their perfect disguises detrimental.
This Knack prevents that problem. When the Lunar takes a new human shape, she also consumes that person’s destiny, though it remains subordinate to her own destiny and will. As long as the Lunar lives, so do the stars of every person whose heart’s blood she took after learning this Knack. Effects that target those individuals specifically, such as Sidereal astrology and some spells, function against her (or to her benefit).
Ongoing effects, such as those from astrology, affect the Lunar whenever she assumes the targeted form. Instantaneous effects, such as an invocation of Infallible Messenger, target the Lunar no matter her current form. She may reflexively refuse any such an effect before it takes place; she does not know what the effect is without the use of Charms, and the effect’s instigator realizes there is some unknown malfunction. Forms that the Lunar possessed before she learned this Knack have already been stricken from Heaven’s records; their stars do not return to the sky.

LUNAR BLOOD SHAPING TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Prey’s Skin Disguise, Essence 3, Charisma 4
Lunars can learn more than to simply take human shapes—Lunars can give their shapes to other humans. A Lunar must feed her target a taste of the Lunar’s blood. Then, if the target is willing, he takes the shape of one human or animal from the Lunar’s library. True forms cannot be shared. The transformation lasts for one hour if the Lunar provides only a lick of blood, and lasts a full day if she provides one lethal health level’s worth of blood.
Targets of this Knack have no control over the transformation outside the ability to refuse it at the start. After a target transforms, he remains in his new shape for the effect’s duration. While the target wears the form given him by the Lunar, the character loses access to that shape.

INSIDIOUS LUNAR TRANSFORMATION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Lunar Blood Shaping Technique, Essence 5, Charisma 5
This Knack enhances Lunar Blood Shaping Technique. Once the Lunar feeds an amount of his blood to a target unwilling to change, the Lunar and target’s players make opposed (Willpower + Essence) rolls. If the Lunar wins, the target is forced into the chosen form for the normal duration, depending on how much blood she consumed. Otherwise, there is no effect.

FORM ACQUISITION KNACKS: SUPERNATURAL

GREEN SUN CHILD
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 4, Intelligence 4
Creatures from outside Creation are beyond the powers of most Lunars. Some, however, strain to master the unnatural shapes of demonkind, to wear their skins. This was one of the most-used Knacks during the Primordial War, as Lunars strove to infiltrate their enemies. Green Sun Child makes demons valid targets for the sacred hunt, which takes the same default time as the hunt for a human. Demons who do not have blood are still valid targets; the Lunar simply has to consume some part of their vital ichors or insides. Characters do not get any of the demon’s Essence-based powers.
Though the natural state of a demon is incorporeal, the Lunar’s natural state remains material.

HEART-THEFT OF THE BEHEMOTH
Corebook
Prerequisites: Green Sun Child, Essence 5, Stamina 5
In the First Age, Luna’s mightiest and most clever warriors learned how to hunt down the Primordials’ greatest weapons and steal their shapes and power. This Knack makes even the strangest monster-beasts valid targets for the sacred hunt. Characters with this Knack may take on the shape of primordial creatures that are no larger than a tyrant lizard and rampage to their hearts’ contents. An Essence 7 and Stamina 7 version of the Knack opens the blood hunt to all primordial behemoths.

HEARTH-AND-FLAME SHELL
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 4, Stamina 4
Elementals are part of Creation—in a way, they comprise it. With this Knack, the character adds elementals to the list of the valid targets for the scared hunt. Hunting an elemental takes the same basic amount of time as hunting a human. Ending the hunt requires the Lunar to consume some vital part of the subject—for some elementals, this may cause the Lunar pain or harm. When the Lunar dons an elemental’s shape, she acquires its elemental nature. She cannot use any of its Essence-fueled powers, but she may still benefit (or suffer) from being made of a certain element. A Lunar wearing a flaming skin may start fires or hurt others by touching them, and water may cause her harm, for example.

LUNA’S HIDDEN FACE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 3, Perception 4
Lunars have difficulty taking on a shape unnatural to Creation. This Knack makes creatures mutated by the Wyld, even to such an extent that they become unviable bloodlines in Creation, valid targets of the sacred hunt. A Lunar does not gain any of the creature’s Essence-based powers.

HEAVENLY SERVANT IMITATION
Lords of Creation
Prerequisites: Green Sun Child, Hearth-and-Flame Shell, Essence 6, Intelligence 6
Luna's Children were never meant to take the shapes of the gods. That ability would only encourage ambition that even pre-rebellious Incarnae thought to fear. Some Lunars transcend this limitation, mastering a blood hunt capable of adding a god to the Lunar's library of forms. The hunt takes the same basic amount of time as hunting a human. Acquir­ing a god without blood requires the Lunar to consume its divine ichors or other vital part. The Lunar cannot use any of the god's Essence-fueled powers.

ESSENTIAL MIRROR FORM
Lords of Creation
Prerequisites: One of various Knacks, Essence 6+, Intelligence 6+
To be masters of infiltration, the Lunar Exalted must mimic their victims' powers. Essential Mirror Form gives the Lunar the ability to use the Essence-based powers of one kind of supernatural creature, as defined by the Knacks that make them valid targets of the sacred hunt. This includes basic elemental powers such as Dragon's Suspire and unique Charms the creatures possess. She can activate such powers only as long as she remains in the form to which those powers are natural. Each such invocation requires an additional cost of one point of Willpower, and since displaying an anima returns a Lunar to one of her true forms, the Lunar has a limited amount of Essence with which to work. If using a Charm or power acquired in this way activates the Lunar's anima to a degree that forces her back into a true form, the effect functions as normal. Effects with extended durations end when their descriptions say, not early because the Lunar leaves the shape.
This Knack can be purchased multiple times to affect additional creature types, though it never makes available the Charms of other Exalted. To purchase this Knack, the relevant prey must be a valid target of the blood hunt. The Lunar must also have an Essence and Intelligence two higher than the Essence and Attribute requirements for the Knack that opens that type of creature to the Lunar's hunt.
Primordial Charms (including those of the Yozis) are considered “the Charms of other Exalted” for the purpose of this Knack. This Charm also will not allow Lunars to use any Charm with the Native Keyword.

HUNGRY DREAM CLOAK 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Luna’s Hidden Face, Essence 4, Wits 4 
This difficult trick, popular among the Swords of Luna, permits a Lunar to drink in the woven lies the raksha use for blood and treat them as true. Fair Folk become valid targets for the sacred hunt, with the same default time as for a human. The Lunar does not gain access to Charms or other raksha powers.

SHIFTING WYLD TIDES 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Hungry Dream Cloak, Essence 5, Wits 5 
Upon slaying a raksha during the course of the sacred hunt, the Lunar may opt to forgo adding her shape to his Heart’s Blood library, instead forging her into a Cup, Staff, Ring or Sword Grace for himself. Newly created Graces begin at a rating of 1. Alternatively, the Lunar may use a raksha slain in the course of the sacred hunt to improve an existing Grace. It takes a number of slain raksha equal to the new desired Grace rating in order to improve a Lunar Grace. (For example, a Lunar looking to raise his Cup Grace from 3 to 4 would need to hunt and slay four raksha.)
As an additional and final benefit, this Knack permits the character to learn Fair Folk Charms for only 10xp each (see Graceful Wicked Masques— The Fair Folk, p. 93, for more details).

ASH AND TEARS BANQUET 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Hearth-and-Flame Shell or Green Sun Child, Prey’s Skin Disguise, Essence 5, Intelligence 5 
Meditating upon the emptiness of the new moon, Lunars may gain certain insights into the nature of darkness. A character with this Knack may treat ghosts as valid targets for the sacred hunt, with the same default time as for a human, though their thin plasm is a poor substitute for real blood. The Lunar does not gain access to Arcanoi or other Essence-driven powers.

FORM ACQUISITION KNACKS: MISCELLANEOUS

LAURELS-AND-IVY TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 4, Perception 4
A few Lunars learn to assume the shapes of plants and other non-animal life. This Knack adds “plants” to the list of valid targets for the sacred hunt. Hunting a plant requires the character to meditate in the presence of many such plants for a base time of 12 hours. When the Lunar changes, he becomes a plant of approximately equal mass—many creepers of ivy or a small tree.
Lunar Exalted in the form of plants have only limited perception. They suffer a -2 internal penalty to all attempts to detect their surroundings. In plant form, a Lunar is constantly Inactive in any form of combat, but the character may change this at will by changing shape.

LIFE OF THE HUMMINGBIRD
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Wits 3
Sometimes, the Lunar Exalted don’t have time to perform a full blood hunt, or need to take a shape without killing its owner. A Lunar can take on an animal’s (or human’s) shape without performing the sacred hunt so long as he gets a taste of its blood.
The new form does not last long. A simple taste of blood, even a minor trickle, gives the Lunar access to the shape for the next hour. More blood, which must be drawn by the character and accompanied by some sharp pain (inflicting at least one lethal health level), adds the shape to the character’s library for one full day. The duration begins counting down the moment the blood leaves the body—a Lunar may not store blood for later use or lick up old, dried blood for the benefit. Any creature that is a valid target for the Lunar’s sacred hunt can provide this benefit.
Without activating the blood hunt, a Lunar may take as little as a few minutes to find the blood of the right creature (for common, small animals) or a half-hour to an hour for larger or less common animals. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this may take even longer, but it should never take more than half as long as the sacred hunt for the equivalent creature.

COMPASSIONATE MIRROR NATURE
Lords of Creation (Modified)
Prerequisites: Life of the Hummingbird, Essence 3, Perception 4
The Lunar understands a compassionate alternative to the standard hunt for a shapes. She dedicates the sacred hunt to Luna with an invocation of her belief in guarding Creation and its life, then she pursues her quarry as normal. Once the period of observation is over, she renders her victim unconscious (not dead) and tastes his blood. She acquires his shape permanently, but the victim lives. When the victim dies, the effects of Flickering Star Infusion begin as normal, as if the Lunar had killed the victim outright. Taking a human form in this way triggers no Compassion roll.

COURTESAN'S POSSESSION
Lords of Creation (Modified)
Prerequisites: Compassionate Mirror Nature, Essence 4, Charisma 4
Blood is unnecessary for a Lunar who applies this Knack to his shapeshifting. He may add a target of his sacred hunt through the act of sexual intercourse rather than by slaying it and taking its heart's blood (or by merely defeating it, as with Compassionate Mirror Nature). It must still come at the culmination of a full hunt, unless the Exalt possesses Life of the Hummingbird and wishes to have the form only temporarily.
Taking a form in this way does not trigger a Compassion roll. Should targets hunted with this Knack die, you may still benefit from the effects of Flickering Star Infusion.

TASTE OF LUNA’S CHAMPIONS
Corebook
Prerequisites: Life of the Hummingbird, Essence 3, Perception 4
The character with this Knack has the power to taste the blood of another Lunar Exalt, who must be willing, and learn a shape the other Lunar has mastered. The Knack requires a 15-minute ritual and costs a point of Willpower from the Lunar using this Knack, whose player rolls (Willpower + Essence). Each success increases the number of shapes he may learn by one (from a base of one) or doubles the period over which he can use each shape (base one hour). The character can instead master a shape forever by spending a point of experience per shape.
This Knack also gives the Lunar a rarely used ritual that targets another Lunar as the subject of the sacred hunt. In this case, the character must hunt down and fight the target Lunar. After killing the target, the Lunar drinks the target’s heart’s blood and gains every shape the other Lunar has mastered and the target’s human and animal true forms (though they do not become new true forms). 
The war form is too unique to each Lunar’s Essence to be duplicated in this way. (Note that cannibalizing a selection of heart’s blood forms increases the character’s Heart’s Blood Background. Some Storytellers may rule that this costs experience points—see pp. 232-233.)

MOON AND EARTH SONG
Lords of Creation
Prerequisites: Laurels-and-Ivy Technique, Essence 7, Percep­tion 7
This Knack allows the Lunar to pay 10m, 1wp to assume the form of a natural geographic feature—a cloud bank, a mountain, a forest, a stretch of river, a creeping fog. The Lu­nar must have within her heart’s blood library the form of a spirit corresponding to the feature she wishes to become—a river god, for example, if she wishes to become a river. The Lu­nar is only semi-mobile in this form, moving at most ten miles per day, and unable to directly act upon anything venturing within her boundaries, though she may observe the interior of her being from any point as though she were present, and adds three dice to all Perception rolls to notice intruders within her. While not immune to damage in landscape form, per se, the Lunar is formidably protected—destroying a Lunar wear­ing the form of a mountain, for example, would likely require Solar Circle sorcery or powerful artifacts of mass destruction. 
The Lunar may not destroy any existing landscape fea­tures by using this Knack; existing geography instead recon­figures itself to account for the new inclusion. For example, if the Lunar were to become a river winding its way through the middle of Whitewall, the city’s streets and roads would temporarily route themselves around it, span the Lunar with bridges, and so forth. A Lunar who became a forest in Nexus would briefly transform Nexus into a thriving trade city lo­cated in the heart of a forest. The Lunar also may not assume a geographic form in a place where it is impossible for that feature to exist (clouds, for example, are rarely found under­water, and mountains and rivers generally do not float two hundred feet above the ground), unless she is in the Wyld. Finally, the Lunar’s Tell extends to blanket her in a veil of normalcy; observers must pierce the Tell in order to realize there is anything unusual about a mountain suddenly spring­ing up overnight.

SOMNOLENT STATUARY METHOD
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Essence 4, Stamina 4
Spending five long ticks in contact with a nonorganic material allows the Lunar to subsume herself into it as a normal shapeshifting action. She may sink into the ground, becoming earth herself, or merge with a stone wall, becoming granite or marble as desired. The Lunar may remain merged within the substance for as long as desired, but she cannot move, speak or act, and she takes a -2 external penalty to all attempts to perceive her surroundings. Yet, she is impossible to locate without Essence sight. She may emerge from her tomb at any time as a reflexive action. She is automatically ejected if the surface in which she is hiding is damaged. 
Characters age at only half the normal rate while merged with a substance through this Knack.

SHAPESHIFTING REFINEMENT KNACKS

HYBRID BODY REARRANGEMENT
Corebook / Scroll of Errata
Prerequisites: Essence 3, Wits 3
A dedicated Lunar can learn to change just part of his body to gain some special benefit or attack. The character may transform part of her body, producing any mutation she desires, so long as the mutation is based on her spirit shape or a shape in her heart’s blood library. Producing a pox or deficiency costs 1m, an affliction or debility costs 2m, a blight or deformity costs 3m, and an abomination costs 4m. These motes are not committed, the Lunar may simultaneously wear as many mutations as she wishes, and the mutations last as long as the Lunar desires. Such mutations do not recede when the character’s anima flares to the 8m+ level.

MONKEY ARM STYLE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Hybrid Body Rearrangement, Essence 4, Dexterity 4
Some Lunars learn more than to simply change their shape and appearance. This technique allows the character to elongate her limbs and digits for the purpose of a single action. She multiplies the distance she may stretch an affected body part by the motes of Essence spent, and the character may not spend more than (Essence) motes. Because the increased flexibility sacrifices leverage and strength, attacking at extended range suffers a -2 penalty to accuracy and raw damage.

CHANGING PLUMAGE MASTERY
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Appearance 3
Shifting to another shape, the character develops greater control over superficial details. For any learned shape, she can control the creature’s appearance to a degree. Fur or feathers can be any color appropriate to the creature, and such identifying marks as scars and birthmarks are under the character’s control. Human shapes are more set, but the Lunar gains the ability to change the appearance of her clothes and hair length.
This power becomes inherent to shifting shape, not something the character can alter without also changing shape. She can change shape to a variation of the same creature, changing superficial features in the transition to a near-identical shape.

INTERNAL FORM MASTERY
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Wits 3
Lunars with this Knack learn how to master their false forms. When in other forms, human or otherwise, he may use the higher of his Dexterity or the form’s Dexterity. He may still use the rating of a creature with less Dexterity, if he wishes—perhaps to conceal his Exalted nature.

SUBTLE SILVER DECLARATION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Appearance 3
When the Lunar wears a shape that is not a true form, he may subdue his Tell so far that none can notice it. By spending one mote, the character ensures that his Tell’s mental attack automatically succeeds for the rest of the scene as long as he is in a false shape. By spending one mote when in a true form, the character increases the base effectiveness of the Tell by two. This incidentally hides scars, birthmarks and other blemishes that could identify the character.
When Peripheral Essence expenditure forces the character into a true form and makes his anima flare, he may spend a mote to prevent the Essence from making his Tell immediately obvious. He must spend the mote of Essence with each Essence expenditure to maintain this benefit.

TWIN-FACED HERO
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 3, Wits 3
Not all Lunar Exalted are bound to their gender. This Knack enables a character to transcend gender, becoming either a male or female rendition of any form she dons. This includes her true forms. Both genders are fully functional in all ways—she may sire or bear children, for example. The character makes the choice to shift gender as she changes shape, or she may spend the full Essence cost to change into a shape she already wears, just to shift gender. Some Lunars prefer a perfectly neuter shape, which this Knack also makes possible.

ANT AND STARFISH TRICK 
Glories of the Most High
Prerequisites: Essence 7, Intelligence 5 Sometimes there are too many things in the world for a single hero to defend. This is no impediment to the most potent Stewards. 
Using this Knack, the Lunar may subdivide his Essence into multiple bodies. Over the course of one long tick, the character extrudes a second body from his own. He must allocate a number of dots of permanent Essence into the double. Those dots are then removed from the main Lunar and are considered to be the double’s permanent Essence rating. Creating a double requires the allocation of at least two dots of Essence, and the original Steward may not reduce himself below Essence 2. The character is free to invoke this Knack to create as many doubles as his Essence dots may be spread between. 
Doubles are semi-independent extensions of the Lunar’s will. They share his personality, goals, traits (up to any limits imposed by their lower Essence ratings) and essentially operate as remote extensions of his mind. They do not consider themselves to be independent entities. Doubles cannot move more than a mile from the original Lunar, and will automatically denature into Essence if forcibly carried beyond that limit. They are able to use any Lunar Charms or Knacks the character knows and which their Essence rating allows. These Charms draw out of the original Lunar’s Essence and Willpower pools, although doubles have independent health tracks. (Any damage required by Charm activation comes from the double’s own health track.) A double’s Charm selections are independent of the original Lunar’s. A Lunar and his double may each use a different Charm at the same time without need of a Combo. 
In order to absorb the memories of anything learned by a double, or to enjoy any Heart’s Blood additions gained by a double, the Lunar must touch the copy and spend a miscellaneous action (Speed 5, DV -0) re-absorbing it. Doing so also restores the Essence dots lent out to create it.
If a double is slain, the Lunar regenerates the lost Essence dots at a rate of one per week.

SHAPESHIFTING SPEED KNACKS

QUICKSILVER SECOND FACE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Dexterity 4
By spending an extra mote, the character may change shape as a Speed 3 action instead of a normal miscellaneous action, which is Speed 5. He can change more quickly between any two forms for the extra cost.

LIGHTNING-CHANGE STYLE
Corebook
Prerequisites: Quicksilver Second Face, Essence 3, Dexterity 5
Sometimes a Lunar simply must change shape now. Perhaps battle is imminent or someone is about to discover the character’s true identity. This Knack enables a Lunar to shapeshift as a completely reflexive action by adding three motes to the cost. Used in attack resolution, the change takes place in Step 1 or 2 and can apply a difficulty to the attack roll (for tiny shapes), increased soak or other benefits.

CONSTANT QUICKSILVER REARRANGEMENT
Corebook
Prerequisites: Lightning-Change Style, Essence 5, Wits 5
By committing four motes, the Lunar becomes able to change shape as a completely reflexive action. In combat time, the character may do so no more than once per tick. Lunar Exalted use this in combination with a wide range of forms to evade attacks through small size or soak them with great Stamina. Other uses include rapid evasion of pursuers (even other Lunars) or to bewilder enemies for purposes of confusion, interrogation, torture or other mind games.

WAR FORM KNACKS

DEADLY BEASTMAN TRANSFORMATION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Essence 2, Stamina 3
This Knack forms the basis of many Lunar battle techniques. Once a character learns it, she can shift into the fearsome war form of the Lunar Exalted, a monstrous amalgam of her two other true forms. The Steward usually gains several feet in height and increases proportionally in mass. Muscles ripple across her form, which usually has fearsomely long and sharp teeth and/or claws. Even if the Lunar’s spirit shape is something as harmless as a groundhog, the hybrid war form looks awesomely dangerous. War forms are stronger, faster and more resilient than the character’s normal forms. They have animal characteristics that give them an edge. Lunars in war form heal even faster than other Exalted, and war form allows them to make use of special aspects of certain Charms, called Gifts. Because Dexterity, animal qualities, healing and Gifts can all be useful outside of combat, some Lunars use war forms for purposes other than combat. At the very least, the war form is a tool of purpose—the Lunar dons this form to accomplish a goal. Design the war form as follows:
• Bonus Attributes. When a character takes Deadly Beastman Transformation, her player adds one dot each to the character’s Strength, Dexterity and Stamina. This increase can bring a character’s physical Attributes above five and only affect the character when she is in war form. Any improved Attributes are considered natural when calculating the Lunar’s dice maximums. (See the box on p. 128 for a description of natural Attributes.)
• Wyld Mutations. The character’s player adds mutations to the form to represent animalistic features. She chooses from the list of Wyld mutations in Exalted, pages 288-290, or creates her own, then applies these to the war form. The player has (Essence + 4) special bonus points to spend on mutations, using the costs given on page 101. Increases in Essence later on allow the player to choose further mutations or “upgrade” existing mutations.
Ignore all negative aspects to these mutations beyond the obvious and frightening change in appearance. These are not actually Wyld mutations; they represent the admixture of human and animal of the hybrid form. Players can only choose or create mutations appropriate to the characters’ spirit shapes. Characters cannot take negative mutations, such as deficiencies, and they cannot take single mutations multiple times. Players cannot apply the Large mutation to the war form; war forms are already larger and stronger than a normal human form. Players may, however, apply the Small mutation, accepting its benefits and penalties. This is how some Lunars create their smaller, less monstrous-seeming war forms. Players and Storytellers must remember that not all mutations are appropriate as animal Traits. Those that are not may be altered, at the Storyteller’s discretion, to represent an appropriate animal Trait.
Some mutations alter the character’s health level track. Ignore these changes; Lunar Exalted remain hard to wound even when their war form is slight and fast, and the increased resilience of the Exalted is represented by their Ox-Body Technique.
While in the war form, Lunars also gain a supernatural resilience that helps them survive terrible wounds. The Lunar does not actually heal any faster (that requires Charms such Bruise-Relief Method and Healing the Scarlet Flow). While in war form, however, a Lunar can completely regrow lost limbs or organs using such Charms. It takes at an hour to regenerate such an extreme wound.
When a Lunar in war form falls into her Dying health levels, her wounds do not worsen. She does not lose additional levels of damage until she dies; instead, she remains that wounded until either someone stabilizes her with surgery (returning her to Incapacitated) or she uses a Charm to heal a point of lethal damage, which accomplishes the same effect. (For this reason, the Lunars’ Ox-Body Technique gives them two additional Dying health levels with each purchase.)
Taking Deadly Beastman Transformation also allows the character to make better use of Gift Charms. Legend says that Luna herself composed Gift Charms for her Exalted. When a character learns a Charm with the Gift keyword, she gains abilities that she can activate automatically when she dons her war form. See the individual Charms for more details.

PERFECTED HYBRID INTERACTION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Deadly Beastman Transformation, Essence 2, Wits 3
When a Lunar isn’t content to have a war form that represents the best of his animal and human natures, he may take this Knack. It allows his player to reallocate the points for mutation ignoring Deadly Beastman Transformation’s guidelines. The Lunar’s shape in his war form no longer needs to reflect his true nature—just the deadly abilities he wishes to have. From this point on, this is the character’s true war form.
Though the name would never reflect it, many Lunars consider this Knack a step along the road to chimerism and view its possessors with deep suspicion.

TERRIFYING BEASTMAN ALTERATION
Corebook
Prerequisites: Deadly Beastman Transformation, Essence 4, Stamina 4
With a deeper understanding of one’s true forms comes a truer merging between the two. Purchasing this Knack gives the Lunar’s player (Essence) more points to play with when choosing mutations for the war form. The final formula becomes ([Essence x 2] + 4). When the character takes Terrifying Beastman Alteration, his player is free to redesign his war form from the ground up, following the same guidelines as normal. However, the Lunar’s human form becomes more animalistic, and his Tell becomes more prominent, reducing the base MDV needed to see the Tell to 8.

DEVASTATING OGRE ENHANCEMENT
Corebook
Prerequisites: Deadly Beastman Transformation, Essence 5, Strength 4
Taking this Knack increases the size and deadliness of the character’s war form. The hybrid form becomes terrifying in size, dwarfing even the tallest human from at least 12 feet of height. The character also adds one additional dot to each physical Attribute when in the war form, on top of any bonus received from Deadly Beastman Transformation.
Lunars who possess Devastating Ogre Enhancement are widely respected and often feared, even by their peers, for their dedication to the ideal of warfare and their constant honing of their physical form. Most (Lunars, at least) consider them the foremost warriors of Creation.

BEAST-POWER CONCENTRATION
Ink Monkeys
Prerequisite: Deadly Beastman Transformation, Essence 2, Appearance 3
Certain Stewards, whether due to vanity or subtlety, prefer to enter battle without outwardly displaying the beast within. This Knack assists in such endeavors, refining the Lunar's Essence until she is able to concentrate the power of her Deadly Beastman Transformation into her human form. This Knack modifies the character's war form, allowing her to activate that form while retaining her natural human shape, if desired. While using Beast-Power Concentration, the Lunar enjoys the benefits of Deadly Beastman Transformation's Bonus Attributes, enhanced healing, and use of Gift Charms, but does not manifest any of that Form's mutations. The Lunar's Tell becomes more prominent while this power is active, reducing the base MDV needed to see it to 8.




LUNAR CHARMS


GENERAL CHARMS

FIRST (ATTRIBUTE) EXCELLENCY—ESSENCE OVERWHELMING
Corebook
Cost: 1m per die; Mins: (Attribute) 1, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive (Step 1 for attacker, Step 2 for defender) Keywords: Combo-OK Duration: Instant Prerequisite Charms: None
Some Lunar Exalted excel at using their natural talents. The Exalt’s player can invoke this Charm when making a roll based on the relevant Attribute. This Charm adds one die to that roll per mote spent. This Charm is the most common source of dice added to rolls; no combination of Charms can add more than (Attribute) dice to the roll.
This Charm can also enhance unrolled uses of the relevant Attribute. Common examples of this are increasing Defense Values with the Dexterity Excellency, climbing the Feat of Strength chart with the Strength Excellency or increasing alcohol Tolerance with the Stamina Excellency. When enhancing a static value, each success rolled with dice from this Excellency increases the effective relevant Attribute by two for an instant. Thus, one success increases Defense Value by one.
This Excellency, other Excellencies and other dice-adding Charms cannot “create” actions. They may supplement existing actions or increase static values that are already in use. Each Charm use also functions only for a single instant or task—the Charm supplements a single attack or defense but must be activated multiple times for multiple attacks or defenses, even on the same tick. 
Essence Overwhelming may be Comboed with the Second Excellency, but can never be used on the same roll as the Third Excellency.

SECOND (ATTRIBUTE) EXCELLENCY—ESSENCE TRIUMPHANT
Corebook
Cost: 2m per success; Mins: (Attribute) 1, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive (Step 1 for attacker, Step 2 for defender) Keywords: Combo-OK Duration: Instant Prerequisite Charms: None
Lunars with this Charm consistently apply their base potential to solve problems. The character’s player may invoke this Charm when making a roll based on the relevant Attribute. The character spends up to (Attribute) in motes, adding one success to the roll for every two motes. Each success purchased with this Charm is the equivalent of two dice purchased with the First Excellency or another dice-adding Charm. See Exalted, page 185, for examples on how this works.
This Charm can enhance unrolled uses of the relevant Attribute, just as the First Excellency. Each two motes spent increases the Attribute by two for an instant action or task, functioning just as a single rolled success with the First Excellency.
Essence Triumphant may be Comboed with the First Excellency, but it can never be used on the same roll as the Third Excellency.

THIRD (ATTRIBUTE) EXCELLENCY—ESSENCE RESURGENT
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: (Attribute) 1, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive (Step 4 for attacker, Step 6 for defender) Keywords: Combo-OK Duration: Instant Prerequisite Charms: None
Lunars with this Charm obey their instincts, saving themselves from failure. A character’s player may activate this Charm after making a roll based on the relevant Attribute. She then makes the roll again, using the new result if she prefers. The Lunar can use this Charm to enhance static values based on the relevant Attribute. Doing so doubles the character’s Attribute for one instant or task, increasing applicable Defense Values by half the relevant Attribute.

INSTINCTIVE (ATTRIBUTE) UNITY
Corebook
Cost: 2m+, 1wp; Mins: (Attribute) 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple Keywords: None Duration: One scene Prerequisite Charms: Any (Attribute) Excellency
Lunar Exalted find ways to become perfectly in touch with their natures. Every two motes spent when activating this Charm reduces the mote cost for the first three (Attribute) Excellencies by one, to a minimum of 0. A Lunar can spend up to (Essence x 2) motes on this Charm. The discount applies to the total expenditure on Excellencies relating to a given roll. In all other ways, Instinctive (Attribute) Unity works the same as the Solars’ Infinite (Ability) Mastery (see Exalted, pp. 185-186).

FLAWLESS (ATTRIBUTE) FOCUS
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: (Attribute) 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent Keywords: None Duration: Permanent Prerequisite Charms: Any (Attribute) Excellency
Lunars are naturally instinctive creatures. This is part of why their Charms focus on Attributes, their natural potential, instead of the training represented by Abilities. Purchasing this Charm, the character becomes able to tap into a more specific instinctive mastery over the relevant Attribute. She learns how to purchase Attribute specialties for the given Attribute. Purchase of this Charm provides one free Attribute specialty.
Attribute specialties cost the same as Ability specialties to learn: three experience points, one bonus point for a non-Favored Attribute or two-for-one for a Favored Attribute at character generation. A character can have no more than three specialties for a single Attribute. Since a character cannot have Attribute specialties without first buying this Charm, it is possible to lose half a bonus point when purchasing Attribute specialties at character generation.
Similar to Ability specialties, Attribute specialties add extra dice to specific uses of the Attribute. Because Attributes are broader than Abilities, their specialties should be correspondingly broad. Attribute specialties may be about as restrictive as a normal specialty but cross Abilities, such as “Forgeries” or “Long-Term Schemes,” or they can include approximately one Ability, such as “Melee” or “Martial Arts” for Dexterity.
When channeling this deeper level of instinct, characters limit the amount of their training they can use. Attribute specialties are incompatible with normal specialties—a character must choose to use one or the other in any given instance.

IMPOSSIBLE (ATTRIBUTE) IMPROVEMENT
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: (Attribute) 5, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Instinctive (Attribute) Unity, Flaw­less (Attribute) Focus
Stewards hone their strengths. This Charm permanently increases the maximum rating of the chosen Attribute by one. Raising the Attribute to that level requires the normal expenditure of experience.

Strength

ATTACK ENHANCEMENT CHARMS

WIND-WINGS CARRY TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 1m or 2m per; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
Little escapes the Stewards’ reach. Every mote spent on this Charm increases the range of a single attack by a factor of (1 + motes spent). Melee and Martial Arts attacks cost two motes to do the same thing one mote accomplishes for naturally ranged weapons, and the Charm becomes Obvious as Essence does the work where the character cannot reach. As a rule, the range of a hand-to-hand attack is equal to one yard plus the length of the weapon.

AGITATION OF THE SWARM TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
Lunar Exalted know how to disrupt their opponents’ calm and unbalance their foes’ stances. Any attack supplemented by this Charm inflicts twice the normal onslaught penalty. Attacks supplemented by Agitation of the Swarm that successfully hit a target and inflict damage also cause great distraction: For each damaging blow supplemented by this attack, one point of onslaught penalty becomes a general Defense Value penalty until the target’s Defense Value refreshes.

FEROCIOUS BITING TOOTH
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
The Lunar imbues his blade or blow with such uncontestable strength that the blow or blade becomes incredibly hard to shift from its intended path. Halve the target’s Parry Defense Value (round down) before applying it to the character’s attack successes in Step 5 of attack resolution; players are aware that parrying becomes a less favorable option with this Charm and may choose to use their characters’ Dodge Defense Values instead.

LIGHTNING STROKE ATTACK
Corebook
Cost: 7m; Mins: Strength 5, Essence 4; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Agitation of the Swarm Technique, Ferocious Biting Tooth
This charm is identical to the Dexterity Charm of the same name (see p. 154), but it focuses on the unstoppable nature of the attack due to the strength propelling it.

BEAST SPIRIT DEFENSE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Ferocious Biting Tooth, Impressions of Strength
Disdaining finesse, Luna’s Chosen may defend themselves with raw power. The Lunar moves forward to meet an oncoming attack, striking it with her mightiest blow. A great surge of Essence erupts before her limb or weapon, taking the form of her spirit shape; this Essence-icon catches the attack and dissipates in the act of throwing it aside.
This Charm acts as a perfect parry which may block any attack of which the Lunar is aware, even if that attack is unblockable. This Charm has one of the Four Flaws of Invulnerability (see Exalted, p. 194).

CRIPPLING CHARMS

FOE-MARKING STYLE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
In order to avoid killing or crippling each other to prove their points, Lunars of the Silver Pact use this Charm as a method of earning honor from one another. Foe-Marking Style supplements an attempt to inflict a scar on an opponent, either through a called shot or normal lethal damage. Wounds caused by this Charm do not heal normally for the Exalted, leaving scars instead of healing without a blemish. Although this is not a crippling effect, supernatural healing that can cure crippling effects can wipe clean these scars.

PREY-HOBBLING BITE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Crippling, Stackable; Duration: (Strength) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
Through judicious placement of wounds, the Lunar ensures that his enemy cannot escape him. Each level of damage inflicted by an attack supplemented with this Charm reduces the target’s Move and Dash actions by one yard and reduces the target’s effective (Strength + Athletics) total by two for the purpose of jumping distance. The effect of this Charm stacks with normal wound penalties to movement, but wears off quickly.

INVITING THE WINTER WOLF
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Strength 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Crippling, Obvious, Stackable; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Prey-Hobbling Bite
Lunar Exalted find it useful to cast down their enemies and ensure that they cannot recover. In a single, Essence-driven blow, the character severs or breaks some part of his victim in a way that makes it unusable. As long as this attack inflicts even a single level of damage, the target suffers a crippling wound of some sort (see Exalted, p. 152).
The character may opt to spend an additional point of Willpower when activating this Charm. This infuses the crippling wound with the mercurial Essence of Luna, making it impossible to heal the wound by mundane means. Surgical attempts to right the issue automatically fail, and even the Exalted do not heal the injury with its associated wounds. Only supernatural methods that heal crippling effects can right this injury.

HERD-STRENGTHENING TACTIC
Lords of Creation
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Strength 6, Essence 6; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Inviting the Winter Wolf
A Lunar's punishment endures. This Charm may supple­ment any action that causes a Crippling effect and makes that effect permanent. Surgical attempts to right the issue fail, and even Exalted do not heal the injury with its associated wounds. It withstands supernatural methods that heal Crippling effects. Resolve conflicts with this statement using the "Unstoppable Force, Immovable Object" rules in Exalted (on p. 179 of the core rulebook). An effect that does repair the harm multiples the time necessary by a factor of the Lunar's Essence.
When invoked as part of Relentless Lunar Fury, all Crippling attacks the Lunar makes in the duration are permanent but do not resist effects that explicitly cure Crippling wounds.
If a Crippling injury enhanced by this Charm is cured by magic, this occurs at the normal rate, not the extended speed indicated by the text.

LION’S ROAR REBUKE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 4, DV -1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Crippling; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
Filling his lungs with thunder, the Lunar throws back his head and roars with a voice to shake the stars from the firmament. All characters within (Essence x 10) yards must roll Stamina + Resistance against a difficulty of the Lunar’s Strength. Should this roll fail, the target is rendered temporarily deaf. He automatically fails all auditory Perception rolls, and suffers a -3 internal penalty to all Perception rolls that might be aided by hearing, such as noticing someone attempting to sneak up on him with Stealth. This deafness persists for (Lunar’s Strength + Essence) hours. The target is also generally disoriented in the wake of the roar, suffering a -1 external penalty on all actions until his DV has refreshed twice.

DAMAGE ENHANCEMENT CHARMS

CLAWS OF THE SILVER MOON
Corebook (Modified)
Cost: 3m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple (Speed 4); Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
A silver nimbus swirls around the Lunar’s limbs, coalescing into claws of pure Lunar Essence. All of the Lunar’s natural weapons does Lethal Damage and adds +2 Accuracy and +2 Defense. Their natural weapons are considered Moonsilver weapons and can be used to block attacks that deals lethal damage without a stunt.
As a Gift effect, the Lunar may commit a single mote upon activating Deadly Beastman Transformation to gain this charm benefits.

IMPRESSIONS OF STRENGTH
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Knockback; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
The blows of the Lunar Exalted possess an unparalleled raw power. This Charm supplements an attack, to which the character applies one of the following edges.
Ogre’s Loving Caress. Damage dice that show 10 count as two successes.
Rock-to-Pebbles Attitude. Increase pre-soak damage by three dice for each time this edge is activated.
Undeniable Might. Increase post-soak damage by one die for each time this edge is activated.
Birth of Flight. Add (Strength) to the difficulty of any knockdown or knockback check caused by the attack.
Mighty Ram Practice. Targets of this attack must check against knockback; this edge increases knockback distance (from a potential base of zero) by one yard for each activation.
The Charm provides one edge initially. Characters may acquire additional edges for one bonus point or two experience points each.
At Essence 4, a character may apply two edges at once (or the same edge twice) for four motes. An Essence 5 character can spend six motes for three applications. Using more than two edges at once makes the attack flare with Essence, becoming Obvious. When this Charm is used with Relentless Lunar Fury, the character adds one of these effects (her choice) to all attacks.

SHELL-CRUSHING ATEMI
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Impressions of Strength
Stewards refuse to allow something as meager as magical armor or reinforced walls get in their ways. Using this Charm allows the character to ignore Hardness for a single attack.

UNSTOPPABLE LUNAR WOUND
Corebook
Cost: 2m per die; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 10); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Impressions of Strength
The might of the Lunar Exalted may not be denied. The Lunar can use this Charm when he damages an opponent. Every two motes spent on this Charm turns a single die of damage into an automatic level of damage in Step 10 of attack resolution. The character may not affect more dice in this way than his Strength.

FORM-DESTROYING TOUCH
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Strength 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Sickness, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Shell-Crushing Atemi, Unstoppable Lunar Wound
The Lunar Exalted carry within them a spark of the Wyld, and some Lunars learn how to channel it. This Charm is an action to touch a living target, which often requires a (Dexterity + Martial Arts) roll. If the Lunar successfully touches her target, she infects him with the Essence of the Wyld, which slowly tears him apart.
On a successful touch, the Lunar’s player rolls (Strength + extra successes) at a difficulty of the target’s Stamina. A failed roll inflicts one level of unsoakable aggravated damage as Wyld Essence surges through the target’s body. The alternative is much, much worse for the victim.
Victims of this Charm’s full extent suffer a sickness with no immediate effects. At least one full day after the attack, when the moon is high in the sky, the victim’s player rolls (Willpower + [Integrity or Resistance] + Essence) at a difficulty of the Lunar’s Essence. Failure inflicts the target with a pox and one level of aggravated damage. Each moonlit night thereafter, the victim suffers the same effect, and the player rolls again. Poxes occasionally increase in strength to become afflictions or even blights.
This Wyld disease cannot be cured without supernatural healing, and even such Essence-based methods suffer an external penalty equal to the Lunar’s Essence. Without such efforts, the Wyld-sickness continues until a full lunar cycle passes, the victim succumbs or the victim becomes too severely mutated to exist within Creation (see The Compass of Celestial Directions: The Wyld for information about excessive Wyld mutation). Entering a Wyld zone counters the aggravated damage… but not the mutation.

BURROWING DEVIL STRIKE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Impressions of Strength
Deep within the Imperial Mountain, the small diamond beetle digs endlessly through even the hardest stone and white jade. Locals call the beetle the burrowing devil even as it leads them to rich veins for new mines. Lunar Exalted mimic this creature’s capability by striking with such force that their attacks tear through armor to reach the soft flesh beneath. Treat this attack as piercing. When activated as a part of Relentless Lunar Fury, the character’s hand-to-hand attacks become piercing for the duration.

CONSUMPTIVE WORM HUNGERS
Cost: —; Mins: Strength 5; Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Burrowing Devil Strike
This Charm permanently enhances Burrowing Devil Strike. The Lunar temporarily becomes able to ignore a target’s armor completely. When using Burrowing Devil Strike, the character must spend an additional point of Willpower to use this function.

BESIEGING THE BASTION OF FORM
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Strength 5, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Form-Destroying Touch
Besieging the Bastion of Form improves its prerequisite. The Lunar may spend an additional five motes of Essence and one point of Willpower when activating Form-Destroying Touch to add one of the following effects:
•  The Sickness effect progresses much more rapidly. After it would normally begin harming its victim, the vic­tim's player must roll to resist damage and mutation every hour instead of every day. The Charm runs its course after 24 more hours.
• The Sickness effect continues to affect its victim until the victim dies or something cures the supernatural disease.
• Failure to resist the Sickness effect inflicts two levels of aggravated damage but no pox. Alternatively, failure af­flicts the victim with two poxes but no aggravated damage. Poxes may double up to cause a single affliction or promote an existing mutation faster than normal.
Upon purchase of Besieging the Bastion of Form, a player picks one of the preceding options. Additional options cost two experience points apiece. Storytellers and players may work together to come up with more options. A character can apply only one option to a single use of Form-Destroying Touch.

FRIEND OF THE PLAGUE
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Strength 6, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Fury-OK; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Besieging the Bastion of Form
Those whom the Stewards condemn invariably die; when she leaves the battlefield, they are defeated. This Charm permanently enhances Form-Destroying Touch, giving it the Fury-OK tag. When so used, the Charm inflicts its effects on everyone the Lunar successfully touches. The character may apply one of the additional effects from Besieging the Bastion of Form by also activating it with Relentless Lunar Fury. Besieging the Bastion of Form cannot be activated as part of a fury unless Form-Destroying Touch is.

LAST WARRIOR’S UNITY 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 3m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift, Obvious, Stackable Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
Lunars cherish their weapons and will not face the shame of being parted from them in battle. The character’s hands slide over and around a weapon held in or on one of her limbs, melting and merging into the substance of the object until it is difficult to discern where flesh ends and blade begins. It is impossible to disarm a weapon encompassed thus without a Crippling amputation effect. Unfortunately, without an appropriate stunt the Lunar cannot use the targeted limb for anything other than holding a weapon while this Charm is in effect.
This Charm may be invoked more than once in order to enchant multiple limbs. 
The character may pay one mote when invoking Deadly Beastman Transformation to merge a single weapon with one of her limbs for the duration of her transformation.

TERRIBLE STEEL-RENDING TALONS
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Strength 6, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Burrowing Devil Strike
This Charm permanently enhances its prerequisite, adding the Gift keyword. The Lunar may commit three motes when activating Deadly Beastman Transformation to add the Piercing tag to all of her barehanded attacks.

FEATS OF STRENGTH CHARMS

TEARING CLAW ATEMI
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
This Charm supplements a single attack or a feat of strength that targets or uses an inanimate object. The Charm doubles the attack’s raw damage or doubles the character’s Strength for the purposes of the feat. This applies equally to feats of strength for throwing or breaking objects, even though they normally work on different time scales.

MOLTED FEATHER-WEIGHT TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Tearing Claw Atemi
Using the power of her great Strength, the Lunar makes an object she attacks with light as a feather to her and just as maneuverable. This Charm negates the accuracy penalty of any weapon, improvised or otherwise, for a single attack.

LIGHTNING FLASH MIGHT METHODOLOGY
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Tearing Claw Atemi
When a Steward is enraged, no mere object can stand in his way. Activating this Charm allows a character to break an object according to the feats of strength table (see Exalted, p. 127) as his action in combat, instead of as a dramatic action.
Using Lightning Flash Might Methodology with Relentless Lunar Fury allows the character to do so as a miscellaneous action while the Charm lasts.

YEDDIM’S-BACK METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Tearing Claw Atemi
Lunar Exalted have near endless might and endurance. Invoking this Charm allows the character to lift objects as though her effective (Strength + Athletics) rating were doubled. She maintains that superhuman strength as long as she commits the Essence. If she has Stamina 4 or higher, during that period she also accrues no fatigue from her extreme lifting.

IRON TYRANT IMPACT
Lords of Creation
Cost: 8m; Mins: Strength 5, Essence 6; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Lightning Flash Might Methodology, Yeddim's-Back Method
Worldly materials do not hinder the Stewards. This Charm supplements a feat of strength to break a mundane object, rendering the attempt automatically successful. With Strength 7+, Essence 7+, the Lunar may add a point of Will­power to the Charm’s cost, permitting it to also destroy magi­cal artifacts. This renders the Charm Simple, with a Speed of (Artifact’s dot rating) minutes and a DV penalty of -3. N/A artifacts are immune to this Charm, as are objects which are specifically noted as being indestructible.

DEADLY MANTIS PRACTICE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 4m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Molted Feather-Weight Technique 
Concentrating and sustaining her might, the Lunar learns to channel the totality of her body’s strength into each limb. While this Charm is in effect, the character may wield weapons with the 2 tag using only one hand with no penalty.

HEAVEN-SPANNING STAFF OF THE MONKEY KING
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 8m, 1wp; Mins: Strength 5, Essence 5; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift, Obvious Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Molted Feather-Weight Technique 
Muscles surging with flashes of argent Essence, the Lunar becomes mighty enough to wield any weapon ever devised. The character is able to wield any weapon without suffering size-based penalties—a warstrider grand daiklave fits her grip as well as a hunting knife. This Charm allows the Lunar to wield only those objects designed as weapons. Improvised weapons are not compatible with its magic. 
When the Lunar uses Deadly Beastman Transformation, she may commit four motes to enjoy this Charm’s benefits for the duration of her time in that form. 
As an additional benefit, this Charm permanently upgrades Molted Feather-Weight Technique, granting it the Fury-OK keyword. This permits the character to employ its benefit to all attacks made while Relentless Lunar Fury remains active.

GRAPPLING CHARMS

ROUSED BEAR THROW
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Strength 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 10); Keywords: Combo-OK, Knockback; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
Lunar Exalted are masters of close combat. When the character makes a successful clinch attack or manages to control a grapple, he may activate this Charm to throw his opponent up to (Strength x Essence) yards in any direction. This breaks the hold. Targets of this Charm as subtract an external penalty equal to the Lunar’s Essence from their check against knockback.

THROAT-BARING HOLD
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 10); Keywords: None; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Strength Excellency
A Steward may place herself in danger to ensure her foe’s defeat. This Charm gives the Lunar the option of automatically inflicting no damage with her crushing attack. Instead, she rolls (Strength + Martial Arts). Each success reduces her target’s bashing and lethal soak by one until the Lunar’s next action. Although the character does not get any opportunity to exploit this weakness, her packmates and allies do.

WASP-BINDING METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 3m, 1wp; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: (Strength x 2) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Throat-Baring Hold
This Charm supplements a clinch attack or an opposed grapple check, during which strands of Essence wrap around the Lunar’s target at her direction. If the grapple check succeeds, the character leaves the grapple while her Essence solidifies around the target. The bindings appear to be constricting bands of silvery Essence, the papery cocoon of a wasp or some other strange containment. This leaves the Lunar free to perform other actions while her magic holds her opponent. On each of the Lunar’s subsequent actions, her player rolls her opposed grapple check as normal, in addition to anything else the character does. If the Lunar desires, she may supplement this check with Excellencies but no other Charms.

JAWS OF THE RIVER DRAGON
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3;; Type: Reflexive (Step 10); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Throat-Baring Hold
None can escape a Steward’s punishment. In addition to the normal crushing damage that a successful clinch or opposed grapple roll inflicts, the character’s mighty arms also weaken her opponent. The victim of this Charm suffers na external penalty on the next opposed grapple check equal to the Lunar’s Essence.

FLESH-TEARING ENTANGLEMENT
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Strength 5; Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Crippling, Stackable; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Jaws of the River Dragon
Lunars’ mastery of their own bodies provides them superior knowledge of others’. This Charm permanently enhances Jaws of the River Dragon, allowing the character to also apply one of the following effects when she activates that Charm and inflicts at least one level of damage from the clinch:
• Reduce any one of the target’s physical Attributes by one.
• Reduce the target’s Appearance by one.
• Render a limb useless for the rest of the scene.
Exalted recover from diminished Attributes at a rate of one per day. Mortals recover only if given supernatural medical aid. All of these effects are considered crippling. Reducing an Attribute to zero renders the target unable to make any roll that requires that Attribute. Losing Strength disables one from inflicting any damage, although Charms that work on a mere touch can still take effect.

CUNNING PORCUPINE DEFENSE
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 4; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Wasp-Binding Method, Jaws of the River Dragon
Stewards control their surroundings. A Lunar activates this Charm when he desires to keep people away from himself in close combat or inflict greater damage on them. This Charm applies a measure of the Lunar’s shapeshifting talents to his anima, allowing it to manifest needles of deadly-looking silver light that emanate from the character and shift rapidly around him.
Any creature that attempts to engage the Lunar in unarmed combat automatically suffers (Lunar’s Strength) dice of lethal damage per attack, and one that actually dares enter a grapple with him suffers (Strength + 5)L damage on each action that the grapple persists. Lunars can use this both to scare foes away from unarmed combat or to make them more deadly clinchers, as this damage is separate from any inflicted by the Lunar.

SUBDUAL CHARMS

SUBDUING THE HONORED FOE
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Strength 2, Essence 1; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
Some opponents deserver better than death—it is a terrible thing to deprive the world of a skilled swordsman or a peerless archer. Activating this Charm guarantees that the Lunar will not kill her enemy and makes it easier to disable such a treasured opponent. She doubles the post-soak damage in Step 7 of attack resolution but automatically inflicts only bashing damage. Furthermore, the damage she inflicts cannot wrap over into lethal damage, no matter how many levels of bashing she actually inflicts.
Used as a part of the Relentless Lunar Fury, this Charm makes all damage the character inflicts bashing. This damage never wraps over into lethal.

HIBERNATION OF THE DOG
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Strength 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Subduing the Honored Foe
At times, Lunar Exalted need to ensure that their enemies do not return to full capability too quickly. This Charm is a single attack. If it connects, the target ceases to be able to recover bashing damage from any source for the rest of the scene.

Dexterity

BALANCE AND GRACE CHARMS

GRACEFUL CRANE STANCE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 2, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
This Charm is identical to the Solar Charm of the same name, found in Exalted on pages 222-223.

LIGHT-FOOTED MOUNTAIN GOAT STANCE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Graceful Crane Stance
Stewards do not fall and make slogging through the muck look elegant. The character is so light on her feet that she ignores environmental penalties to movement and actions. Add the character’s Dexterity to her Athletics rating to determine whether her player must roll for the Lunar to keep her balance. Reduce the cost of this Charm to two motes if Graceful Crane Stance is already active.

CAT-FALLING ATTITUDE
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: None; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Graceful Crane Stance
Height presents no danger to the Stewards. A Lunar may activate this Charm Reflexively during or at the end of a fall. Divide the number of yards the character falls by two to determine appropriate damage from falling. The fall does not inflict lethal damage unless the fall covers a distance of at least 50 yards, and the Lunar always lands on her feet—never prone.

CLOUD-WALKING STANCE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Wyld; Duration: Permanent 
Prerequisite Charms: Graceful Crane Stance Lunars are comfortable traversing the impossible landscapes of madness at the rim of Creation. While the character is in the Wyld this Charm reduces the cost of Graceful Crane Stance to zero motes and extends its Duration to Indefinite. These benefits also extend to Light-Footed Mountain Goat Stance if the character knows that Charm.

ESSENTIAL MOONSILVER AFFINITY
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 2m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
Suffusing her body with a distillation of her protean Essence, the Lunar’s body becomes more flexible, better able to stretch and bend as needed. All of the Lunar’s attacks gain the R tag (see Exalted, p. 373), and she reduces the mobility penalty of any worn armor by 2. Finally, any non-combat roll which would be aided by such flexibility adds one automatic success.
When the Lunar uses Deadly Beastman Transformation, she may commit one mote to infuse this protean Essence into her war form.

CRAFTING CHARMS

CLAY-WETTING PRACTICE
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Touch; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
Just as a wasp digests paper to make its hive or certain creatures of the earth use their saliva to reinforce their burrows, the Lunar infuses an object with Wyld-bearing Essence to make it malleable. Invoking the Charm, the character chooses one discrete object of any mundane material. For the rest of the scene, the character may reshape the object with a brush of his hands. To everyone else, the object remains as hard as normal. Clay-Wetting Practice cannot affect the magical materials.
When a Lunar targets an object no larger than he can hold in one hand, he may reshape that object as a miscellaneous action into any similar object of the same material and Resources value or less. Some Lunars use this Charm in combat so they always have the most appropriate weapon for the moment, although it doesn’t work as well as Weapon-Shaping Method. Clay-Wetting Practice creates only average goods.
Clay-Wetting Practice also makes unworkable materials valid targets for Craft actions and eliminates any penalty for working without tools. In normal working conditions, this Charm reduces the target Resources value by one for determining the task’s difficulty and time required, though long-term projects require many invocations of this Charm. Projects that normally involve dozens or hundreds of workers do not benefit from this Charm.
Characters may use this Charm to damage an object quickly. A Lunar ignores (Dexterity x 2) points of an object’s soak after affecting it with this Charm.

WEAPON-SHAPING METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 3m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Clay-Wetting Practice
Although nearly anything can be a weapon in a Lunar’s hands, this Charm and the character’s inconstant Essence make it literal. As long as no one else owns (see Exalted, p. 238) an object the character picks up, she may Reflexively change it into an unremarkable, mundane weapon. An object can only become a weapon with about the same mass. Arrows are an exception—even the lightest materials can become arrows, though many objects may be too heavy.
Picking up an object to turn it into a weapon is an action equivalent to drawing a normal weapon of that sort:
Picking up a stone as a sword is a miscellaneous action, while snapping off a twig to become an arrow is a Reflexive part of launching that arrow. When the character lets go of an object-turned-weapon in this way, the object returns to its original form at the end of the tick. This provides enough time for thrown weapons and arrows shaped by this Charm to reach their targets before they revert.
Objects crafted of the magical materials cannot be affected by this Charm.

LUNAR BLADE RECONFIGURATION
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Clay-Wetting Practice
Moonsilver is a gift from Luna, and this Charm enhances that gift. Once this Charm is active, an attuned moonsilver weapon can become nearly any weapon of the Exalted. On her action, the Lunar may Reflexively change the target into any other weapon of equal or lesser Artifact rating. If she so chooses, she may also change the target into any mundane weapon, which benefits from the moonsilver material bonus.
Any magical functions the weapon possesses (besides its basic weapon traits) function in all its forms unless they depend on the weapon’s shape. For instance, a dire lance that increases damage even further when charging does not keep that bonus in the shape of a daiklave. At the end of the scene, the weapon returns to its original form.
When presented with an unworked nugget or deposit of moonsilver, this Charm allows a character to shape the material Reflexively into any mundane weapon. Such weapons do not benefit from the moonsilver magical material bonus—they are not actually artifacts, and they are not attuned. At the end of the scene, the Reconfigured moonsilver returns to its original shape.

DEFENSIVE CHARMS

SECURE CAT STEPPING
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 1; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
Stewards are cautious by nature. This Charm may supplement any action; actions so supplemented reduce the Defense Value penalty they apply to the character by one, to a minimum of zero.
Activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, this Charm reduces the Defense Value penalty of all attack actions by one for the duration.

FINDING THE NEEDLE’S EYE
Corebook
Cost: 2m or 3m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
The Lunar stops a ranged attack before it nears him. Invoked when the character is the target of a ranged attack, the Lunar forfeits his Defense Value to make an active attack in return to deflect or destroy the incoming attack. He might bat a chakram out of the air with his sword or fire one arrow to smash another. The player rolls (Dexterity + relevant Ability) at difficulty (attacker’s Dexterity). If the attack strikes the projectile, resolve damage.
The damage may be enough to destroy the projectile outright— arrows are particularly fragile—completely negating the incoming attack. Assuming the projectile survives, each die of the Lunar’s raw damage still reduces the incoming attack’s damage by one die. The force of this defense can disrupt even projectiles that cannot be “destroyed,” such as gouts of flame from firewands and blasts of Essence. At Essence 3 or higher, a character may spend three motes on this Charm to defend another character against ranged attacks, if he himself has some way to attack at the proper range.

GOLDEN TIGER STANCE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
From the Lunar’s flawless position, nothing can hinder his defenses. This Charm is used in response to an attack. The Charm eliminates up to (Dexterity) points of penalties that apply to the character’s Dodge and Parry Defense Values. When activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, Golden Tiger Stance automatically eliminates up to (Dexterity ÷ 2) points of penalties to Dodge and Parry Defense Values at all times. This does not stack with invoked instances of Golden Tiger Stance.

WARY SWALLOW METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Golden Tiger Stance
Wise Lunar Exalted are always prepared for an attack, sensing the reactions of animals, plants and sheer Essence around them to the offense. This Charm removes the unexpected quality from a single attack, allowing the character to use her appropriate Defense Values and defensive Charms against it. Attacks that are unblockable or undodgeable remain so.

WIND-DANCING METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 9); Keywords: Combo-OK, Counterattack; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Golden Tiger Stance
Stewards are always where they need to be, nowhere else. The character may activate this Charm after using her Defense Value to defend against an attack, successful or not. In Step 9 of attack resolution, she skips lightly away from her aggressor. As part of a dodge, she may leap away; when parrying, the Lunar may let the attack she blocks propel her along. The character moves (Dexterity + Dodge) yards in any direction of her choice, so long as she moves generally away from her attacker.
Lunars use this Charm to get out of range of a close-combat flurry, forcing the flurry to end if the attacker does not have enough movement to keep up with her. Against ranged opponents, this Charm can help the character quickly find cover or make the attack more difficult due to range.
This Charm counts as a counterattack, so it reduces the character’s Defense Value by one and cannot be used against a counterattack.

FLOWING BODY EVASION
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Dexterity 5, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Wary Swallow Method, Wind-Dancing Method
Lunar warriors move like the wind, impossible to grasp and futile to cut. A Lunar uses this Charm in response to all attacks of which she is aware. The character’s flesh denies the assault, flowing around it or to one side. The character perfectly dodges the attack, even if it is undodgeable. This Charm has one of the Four Flaws of Invulnerability (see Exalted, p. 194).

FLOWING BODY ASCENSION
Lords of Creation
Cost: — (+3m, 1wp); Mins: Dexterity 6, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Flowing Body Evasion
This Charm enhances its prerequisite. By spending another three motes and one willpower when activating Flowing Body Evasion, that Charm's duration becomes one action.

BECOMING WATER'S ENVY
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Dexterity, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Fury-OK; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Flowing Body Evasion
This Charm enhances its prerequisite, giving it the Fury-OK keyword. Activating Flowing Body Evasion with Relentless Lunar Fury allows the Lunar to automatically dodge one attack of which she is aware each action. Addi­tional unbeatable dodges in a single tick require the Lunar to activate Flowing Body Evasion separately. The character suffers a Flaw of Invulnerability applicable to Flowing Body Evasion for the duration of Relentless Lunar Fury.

WORLD-BENDING GUARDIAN ATTENTIVENESS
Lords of Creation
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 6, Essence 6; Type: Simple; Keywords: Obvious, Wyld; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Finding the Needle's Eye, Flowing Body Evasion
The character constantly benefits from the effects of a Defend Other action used on his behalf by the Wyld itself. This Defend Other action has a DV of two per degree of surrounding Wyld, from two in the Bordermarches to eight in Pure Chaos. Since the defender is the Wyld itself, attack­ers may not choose to divert their attacks to strike the Wyld rather than the Lunar, and no other effect may force them to attempt to do so. Lunar Exalted use this Charm for an advan­tage against the Fair Folk on those monsters’ own turf.

FEROCIOUS GUARDIAN BEAST STANCE
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Golden Tiger Stance
The Steward’s blade whips out in a quicksilver flash, diverting an attack intended for his charge. This Charm is a perfect parry against any attack of which the Lunar is aware, even unblockable attacks, but it may be invoked only to protect a character the Lunar is guarding with a Defend Other action. This Charm has one of the Four Flaws of Invulnerability (see Exalted, p. 194).

HERON SHEDS RAIN 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+2m); Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 2; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Ferocious Guardian Beast Stance, Wary Swallow Method 
This Charm serves as a permanent upgrade to Ferocious Guardian Beast Stance, allowing it to be invoked on the Lunar’s own behalf rather than that of a ward. This adds a two-mote surcharge to the Charm’s invocation cost.

VIGILANT MASTIFF TECHNIQUE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 7m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple (Speed 3); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
Luna Exalted her Chosen to protect that which is worth defending. Synchronizing her mercurial Essence with a target within (Dexterity) yards, the Lunar is considered to be reflexively warding that individual with a Defend Other action for the rest of the scene, as long as she remains within appropriate guarding range. Vigilant Mastiff Technique may be used to benefit only one target at a time. The Lunar must cancel the Charm and re-invoke it to change wards.
 
SENSING THE DEADLY FLOW
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 5, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Wary Swallow Method, Wind-Dancing Method
The Lunar Exalted are long-accustomed to living on the edge. This finely attuned instinct for danger may be honed into a preternatural battle insight, allowing canny Stewards to stay one step ahead of their attackers. While this Charm is active the Lunar subtracts half of her Dexterity rating (round up) from any onslaught or coordinated attack penalties she suffers.
Activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, this Charm reduces all onslaught and coordinated attack penalties by half (round down) or by the Lunar’s (Dexterity / 2, round up) for the duration, whichever would provide the lesser benefit.

MOVEMENT CHARMS

GROUND-DENYING DEFENSE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
Stewards are masters of territory, and this Charm lets them command their ground in battle. By moving with grace, speed and forethought, the character limits the number of people who may attack him. Simply by spending three motes, he arranges positions on the battlefield such that one fewer people than normal can attack him in close combat. On open ground, this reduces the number from five to four; it also protects him from suffering one unexpected attack due to restricted maneuvering. In closer quarters, this Charm reduces the maximum number of attackers to three.

INSTINCT-DRIVEN BEAST MOVEMENT
Corebook
Cost: 4m+; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
When pressed, Stewards can cover a great deal of ground without difficulty. Activating this Charm doubles the character’s movement rate for every four motes spent. (Four motes doubles speed, eight motes triples speed, etc.) Every four motes spent also adds one automatic success to opposed speed rolls. This benefit stacks with those of Furious Hound Pursuit or Flight of the Sparrow. At the Storyteller’s discretion, other speed-enhancing Charms might also benefit from this advantage.

FURIOUS HOUND PURSUIT
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Instinct-Driven Beast Movement
Once a Lunar Exalt chooses her prey, it cannot escape. The Lunar’s player designates a single target, which the Lunar must have seen within the last hour. The character’s Move and Dash actions both become one yard greater than those of her quarry, if that is greater than her current movement, and she automatically beats the target in contested rolls to determine relative speed by at least one success. In long-term movement, the character automatically moves one mile per day greater than her target. By spending a point of Willpower at activation, the Duration becomes Indefinite: As long as the character does not stop pursuing the target, the Charm persists.
If the target uses Charms to increase speed, the Lunar does not accelerate; his advanced movement is based on the target’s natural values. At Essence 4, the Charm allows the Lunar to match her target’s movement rates, including magic.
Activating this Charm in conjunction with Relentless Lunar Fury provides the Charm’s benefit against any one target at a time, which she may Reflexively re-designate each action.

FLIGHT OF THE SPARROW
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Instinct-Driven Beast Movement
Stewards know when they must retreat to survive and protect their lands in the future. This Charm doubles a character’s Move and Dash actions so long as he attempts to escape pursuit or otherwise flee a scene, event or area. Outside of combat time, this doubles long-term movement rates and adds (Dexterity) successes to any roll to determine relative speed between the character and a pursuer. Flight of the Sparrow ends when the character releases the Essence or is no longer fleeing.

PACK AND FLOCK GUIDANCE
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Furious Hound Pursuit, Flight of the Sparrow
This Charm permanently enhances Furious Hound Pursuit and Flight of the Sparrow, allowing the character to convey the Charm’s benefit to an entire unit that he leads. This adds one Willpower to the cost and affects a unit of up to Magnitude (the character’s Essence - 1). When leading a unit, a Lunar using Furious Hound Pursuit can only target another unit with that Charm’s effects.

MIST-WALKING PRANA
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Wyld; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Pack and Flock Guidance
There are holes in the Wyld, tunnels that connect two far places but that rarely exist for long. This Charm gives the character the preternatural speed to slip through these gaps in space before they disappear or move on.
The Lunar’s player rolls (Dexterity + Occult) at a difficulty of 1 for Pure Chaos, 2 for the Deep Wyld, 3 for Middlemarches and 4 for the Bordermarches. Basic success allows the character to exploit these distortions of the Wyld to travel one mile. Each threshold success allows him to add one zero to the distance or increase the Magnitude of people he leads on the path by one (from a base of zero, himself). Maximum distance is 1,000 miles; maximum Magnitude is (Essence - 1).
Traveling this way is a dramatic action that requires five minutes. Though the Lunar rarely stays in one place long enough for creatures of the Wyld to accost, taking any nonreflexive actions (to attack something, for example) breaks the character’s concentration and disrupts the Charm. A Lunar who does not complete the trip as planned (i.e., the player fails a roll) usually ends up lost, sometimes far from his intended destination (by 1,000 miles or more distant, in the case of a botch). Assuming nothing goes wrong, the Lunar progresses the appropriate distance toward his destination with the Charm’s conclusion.

MOONLIGHT HUNT
Lords of Creation
Cost: 8m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 6, Essence 6; Type: Simple; Keywords: Obvious, Wyld; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Mist-Walking Prana
Stewards know the flaws in the world. With this Charm, the Lunar detects cracks in the Wyld and may walk through them to travel short distances. For the rest of the scene, she may travel up to (Essence x 10) yards without crossing the intervening space as a Move action. She need make no movement—she simply changes loca­tion. This translation through space is so unnoticeable and unpredictable that provides an opportunity to re-establish sur­prise when the character teleports.

STAR FALLS THROUGH
Lords of Creation
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 7, Essence 7; Type: Reflexive (Step 9); Keywords: Combo-Basic, Counterattack, Obvious, Shaping, Wyld; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Snake Body Technique, Moonlight Hunt
Stewards refuse assaults on their favored grounds. With lightning speed, the Lunar tricks someone who attempts to harm her into a Wyld instability. In a silver-and-rainbow flash, the aggressor disappears. The Lunar makes a standard close-range counterattack. If the attack succeeds, the aggressor is lost in the warp of the Wyld for ten ticks, reappearing in a place of the Lunar’s choosing up to (Lunar’s Essence) miles away. The Lunar may not relocate her opponent to an imme­diately hazardous location (so, no teleporting her into the air above a volcano’s caldera).

SPEED AND EXTRA ACTION CHARMS

DILIGENT HIVE IMITATION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
Stewards work quickly so they may return to the things they enjoy. Until the character’s next action, he treats all miscellaneous actions as Speed 3.

WASP STING BLUR
Corebook
Cost: 2m per tick; Mins: Dexterity 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Dexterity Excellency
With the blinding speed of a striking insect, the Lunar lashes out and almost immediately recovers. This Charm reduces the Speed of a Lunar’s action by one for every two motes spent, after persistent effects, to a minimum of 3.
Used with Relentless Lunar Fury, this Charm reduces the Speed of all attacks by one (minimum three) for the duration.

TWIN-FANG TECHNIQUE
Corebook (Modified)
Cost: 3m; Mins: Dexterity 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Wasp Sting Blur
The Lunar Exalted are more dangerous than one expects. Invoking this Charm, the character lashes out with two weapons instead of just one. (Both weapons must be in hand.) The player and his single target go through attack resolution twice, skipping Steps 1, 3 and 4 the second time through—use the first attack roll both times. The target’s defense suffers onslaught penalty the second time. When using ranged weapons that are constantly drawn (arrows for a bow, daggers from a bandolier, etc.), the character may fire or throw two at once as long as he has sufficient ammunition.

OCTOPUS AND SPIDER BARRAGE
Corebook
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 5, Essence 3; Type: Extra Action; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Wasp Sting Blur
Lunar Exalted are talented improvisers, using every method and advantage at hand to survive. This Charm gives a character one attack at her full dice pool for every combat-capable extremity she has. Each limb must actually be used for the attack—a character cannot use a weapon for each attack unless she can use it with each relevant limb. A Lunar in typical human form using this Charm receives four attacks when using this Charm, one for each arm and leg. In her war form, she may receive more attacks due to antlers, tusks or extra sets of limbs.

LIGHTNING STROKE ATTACK
Corebook
Cost: 7m; Mins: Dexterity 5, Essence 4; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Twin-Fang Technique, Octopus and Spider Barrage
Endowing her attack with the speed of her natural grace or the blurring speed of brute force, the character’s attack moves so quickly that both Parry and Dodge Defense Values become inapplicable. Onlookers may think the character and her weapon did not even move. Only a bright flash or blur (and often a falling opponent) indicate that anything happened at all.

SPREADING THE WYLD ROOTS
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Wyld; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Octopus and Spider Barrage
Within the Wyld, space is not always a matter of here and there. Sometimes, one location is in multiple places, or many points all fit into one small space. Though the Lunar Exalted are immune to such space-bending (to a degree), some learn how to exploit it. By perceiving and striking at one such multispatial point, or perhaps creating it with the Charm, the character attacks (Essence) points simultaneously with a single blow.
The character may target multiple individuals (who must all be within 30 yards), a single person or any mix thereof. Attacking one target with multiple strikes reduces that target’s Defense Value by the total number of blows laid on the target, as if multiple people launched a coordinated attack.
Example: A Lunar with Essence 4 levies three blows against one target and one against another. The first target suffers a -3 DV penalty against the attack; the second target suffers no penalty. By attacking each target with two blows, the Lunar could give each a -2 DV penalty instead.
The Lunar’s player only rolls a single attack, which is applied against the Defense Values of all chosen targets simultaneously.

UNHESITANT SCORPION LASH
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Dexterity 6, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Octopus and Spider Barrage
Lunar heroes strike with unhesitating speed. Unhesitant Scorpion Lash permanently enhances the character’s capabili­ties. When he invokes a Charm that provides a flat number of extra actions for a flat cost, the Lunar adds two to the number of actions provided.

GREEDY MOSQUITO BITE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Dexterity 6, Essence 5; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Lightning Stroke Attack
Like the greedy mosquito, some warrior Lunars cannot resist reaching for a second strike. This Charm gives them the speed to succeed. When this Charm supplements a successful attack, the character's strike plunges into the fresh wound a second time. Revisit Steps Seven-Ten of attack resolution and inflict all damage from the attack again.
Activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, the character inflicts extra damage on every successful attack. This damage is applied separately and never exceeds minimum damage for the original blow.
At Essence 7, the Lunar may spend four more motes on this Charm to include the effects of all Charms (rather than just damage-increasing Charms) while revisiting Steps Seven-Ten.

Stamina

CONSUMPTION CHARMS

FERTILE BREATH INVERSION
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Gift; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
By inverting a personal definition of what is breathable and what is not, the Lunar allows herself to breathe safely anything she currently allows into her lungs. While air still tastes sweet to her lungs, so does whatever she targets with the Charm.
Lunar Exalted used this Charm in the Primordial War to dive into Kimberry, the Sea That Marched Against the Flame, and do battle with her heart. Players should note that being able to breathe fire or a sandstorm without harm does not make it safe to be immersed in it. That requires other Charms.
When a character uses Deadly Beastman Transformation, she may activate this Charm by committing a single mote. Fertile Breath Inversion then allows her to breathe something appropriate to her hybrid form, such as water for a barracuda or sand for an eight-tailed mole hound. Activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, the character can safely breathe everything until the Charm ends.

MOONSILVER STOMACH CONVERSION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
In Creation, almost everything is edible to something. The Lunar Exalted mimic that capability by fortifying their gullets, digestive systems and, occasionally, teeth so they can safely consume nearly anything. Activating the Charm, a character becomes able to eat without harm whatever he puts into his mouth and obtain the same sustenance as from decent food. Lunar Exalted use this Charm, among other things, to find all the food they need while surviving inhospitable regions of Creation.
When activating Deadly Beastman Transformation, the character may commit one mote to gain the ability to eat materials appropriate to the hybrid form.

ENDURANCE CHARMS

OX-BODY TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 1, Essence 1; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Stackable; Prerequisite Charms: None
Lunar Exalted are able to take blows far better than weak things such as mortals or castles. As anyone who has fought Lunars knows, Luna’s Chosen can suffer grievous injuries and keep on fighting. This Charm gives the Lunars additional health levels.
A player may purchase this Charm multiple times, but no more than once per dot of Stamina. Each purchase provides two additional Dying health levels (see Exalted, pp. 150-151) and the player’s choice of the following:
• Two -1 health levels
• Four -2 health levels

STEADFAST YEDDIM MEDITATION
Corebook
Cost: 2m+; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Stackable; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
Lunar warriors are known for their ability to keep on going despite the pain. For each two motes spent, the character allows herself to ignore one point of internal penalties from wounds, fatigue or any manner of deprivation or pain. A Lunar may cancel up to (Stamina ÷ 2) points of penalties. The character need not have any penalties in order to use the Charm; she may preemptively render herself proof against these penalties. Penalties from wounds are always canceled first; other penalties are prioritized by the Lunar’s player and may be reprioritized at will.
When this Charm is activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, the Lunar ignores wound penalties completely until her rage subsides.

BEAR SLEEP TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: None; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Steadfast Yeddim Meditation
Stewards save their power for when the land truly needs them. Some Moonchildren used this Charm to remain safely separate from a world that hated them until the present day. Most of those sleepers are now awakened… but who knows?
Activating this Charm, the Lunar settles down for a long hibernation, fueled by his will and Essence. The character’s player declares up to (Essence) conditions that will awaken the Lunar. One of these conditions must be a maximum duration the character will sleep. Other conditions may be anything the character might perceive when asleep; the character’s player makes relevant rolls as normal to determine if the sleeping Lunar detects the conditions. Suffering a wound always ends the hibernation.
While a Lunar hibernates, he does not age or need food, air or water. Lunars use Bear Sleep Technique to pass time they do not consider important to experience. They also use this Charm to stay alive in times of famine, drought or lack of breathable air.

UNSTOPPABLE JUGGERNAUT INCARNATION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Stackable; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Steadfast Yeddim Meditation
This Charm allows a Lunar to remain upright even when everything demands that he be dead. A character uses Unstoppable Juggernaut Incarnation when he takes damage that would place a lethal wound in his Incapacitated health level. He does not suffer any damage beyond that Incapacitated level, and instead of taking that damage, he temporarily sets it aside and the player does not mark it wounded. He continues to operate as normal, but only as long as the three motes spent on the Charm remain committed.
Characters may activate this Charm multiple times in order to “delay” multiple killing blows. Each time the Lunar does so, another lethal wound enters his pool of waiting damage. Releasing one mote of Essence committed to this Charm releases them all. Having just one “delayed” Incapacitated wound level fills all the character’s wound boxes when he releases it. Each additional delayed wound fills one of the character’s Dying health levels with lethal damage. This Charm is ineffective against aggravated damage.

LUNA’S FORTITUDE
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Steadfast Yeddim Meditation
Sometimes, the Stewards do not know when they have already lost. Legend states that Lunars loyal to the Solar Deliberative sometimes fought on for days while holding the Dragon-Blooded hordes off from the Lunars’ masters—the Lunars simply had not yet realized they were dead.
While this Charm is active, the character ignores the effects of falling unconscious or dying until her next action. At that time, she may activate Luna’s Fortitude again in order to remain functioning. As long as she maintains enough Essence to continue using this Charm, she need not fall unconscious or die. Once the Lunar ceases to activate the Charm on her every action (or otherwise benefit from its effects), she suffers whatever fate she has avoided until then.
With Relentless Lunar Fury, this Charm provides the Charm’s benefits until the rage ends. Usually, there is some opportunity for the Lunar then to activate this Charm or somehow remain functional.

MOONSILVER ABSORPTION
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 6, Essence 5; Type: Permanent Keywords: Obvious Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Unstoppable Juggernaut Incarnation
This Charm permanently enhances Unstoppable Jugger­naut Incarnation. When the character uses that Charm, he does not record any of the damage inflicted in the otherwise lethal blow; it now includes aggravated damage. The character's body shines like moonsilver as it shifts around the blow.

TIME-BENDING CHRYSALIS 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+20m); Mins: Stamina 6, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Bear Sleep Technique
This Charm permanently upgrades its prerequisite. First, an invisible Essence cocoon grants the Lunar +15L/15B armor soak while hibernating. Second, and more importantly, the Lunar ages in reverse while slumbering, at half the rate of time spent sleeping. For example, a Lunar who hibernated for 10 years would awaken with a body five years younger than it was when he went to sleep. This slumber never results in a loss of memories, traits or capabilities. A Lunar is considered to be his actual chronological age for the purpose of purchasing Essence dots, rather than his biological age as modified by this Charm. 
A second purchase of this Charm, at Stamina 10+, Essence 9+, allows the character to age in reverse while hibernating in real time. If he hibernates for 10 years, he awakens 10 years physically younger. Using this Charm, a character can reverse-age his body only until it reaches the physical age at which he Exalted. Time spent hibernating in excess of that limit has no further age-reversing effect. This Charm represents the current apex of Lunar anagathic study.

ENVIRONMENTAL CHARMS

(DIRECTIONAL) MASTERY TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: None
Stewards may guard even the farthest, least-hospitable reaches of Creation without discomfort. (Directional) Mastery Technique is actually five Charms. Each Charm defines a category of environmental damage to which the Lunar is immune. The Charms are based upon the five directions:
• Center: The character is immune to environmental crippling effects. She takes no damage from avalanches or cave-ins, and being crushed by a ton of rubble is a mere inconvenience. A sandstorm tickles her skin.
• East: The character is unaffected by plant-based toxins. Irritating insects avoid her or cannot penetrate her skin, and she never develops annoying rashes. Other creatures that swarm ignore her. Insects that actually damage her subtract three from their dice pools and raw damage values.
• North: The character takes no damage from chill or extreme cold. She never catches a chill. Terrible ice storms provide a pleasant massage. She never feels uncomfortably cold, only pleasantly cool.
• South: The character may walk through natural and magical flames without pain. Fire does not burn her clothing. Extreme heat does not harm her. She never feels uncomfortably hot, only pleasantly warm. In sandstorms, particles do not even get stuck in her clothing.
• West: The character is comfortable and can breathe at all depths. Venoms of marine life do not affect her, and she takes no damage from schools of small, dangerous fish or other masses of underwater creatures. These Charms are meant to be complete, protecting the character from all environmental dangers inherent to a given direction. Specific environmental threats not mentioned should fall under one of the five Charms.
Some (such as sandstorms) may fall under more than one. When another character deliberately causes or uses environmental effects with intent to harm the Lunar, she is not immune.

EXTERNAL HIDE PERFECTION
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Any (Directional) Mastery Technique
Lunars become true masters of their territories. This Charm permanently enhances all (Directional) Mastery Technique Charms the character knows. It eliminates the exception made for other characters’ deliberation and intention; the character never suffers damage or penalties from dangers covered by his (Directional) Mastery Technique Charms.

ESSENCE-REGAINING CHARMS

MIGHT-BOLSTERING BLOW
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
Lunar Exalted are creatures of great power, and they revel and grow strong in their might. When an attack supplemented by this attack hits its target, the character regains one mote for every extra success to a maximum of (Stamina). If the attack also inflicts damage, the character regains one mote for each level of damage to a maximum of (Stamina). This attack must be a display of the Lunar’s prowess to provide any return in Essence. If there is no challenge in hitting a target, there is no return from striking it, and destroying a cushion in one blow is no mark of strength.

BREATH-DRINKING EXECUTIONER ATTACK
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (Speed 4); Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Might-Bolstering Blow
With a person’s death, the patterns of Essence that bind the decedent’s higher and lower souls relax, releasing several motes into Creation. Activating this Charm, the Lunar’s player rolls (his Essence + target’s Essence) to prevent that Essence from going to waste. Any character who died within the last minute becomes a valid target for this Charm. Each success, to a maximum of the Lunar’s Stamina, returns two motes to the Lunar’s pools. This Charm cannot fill the character’s Essence pool past its maximum.
Activating this Charm with Relentless Lunar Fury, the character regains one mote of Essence each time he kills a target.

SILVER LUNAR RESOLUTION
Corebook (Modified)
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Native; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
Lunars empower themselves through the successful strengthening and defense of others. The more effort a character puts into protecting a society or culture, the greater her power. With the purchase of this Charm, the Lunar may recover motes by working to protect any social or military unit from danger or dissolution. Each hour spent on such tasks recovers motes equal to the unit’s Magnitude. In addition, each purchase of this Charm adds 10 motes to the character’s Peripheral Essence pool. This Essence cannot be committed to any artifact and can only be recovered through the method above or through Essence-recovery Charms. A character may not take this Charm more times than her permanent Essence.

FURY CHARMS

RELENTLESS LUNAR FURY
Corebook
Cost: 1m, 1wp; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 1 or 2); Keywords: None; Duration: (Essence x 2) actions; Prerequisite Charms: None
After activating this Charm, the character enters a devastating battle fury. She may slaughter her foes as dispassionately as the most cold-blooded assassin, show her rage with shouts and grimaces, or act any other way she desires. This short-lived Charm is the exemplar of Lunar—indeed, some say Exalted—combat. Shielded by their fury, the character becomes a truly frightening foe.
The Charm’s initial benefits are modest. The character adds one automatic success to all combat actions, from attacking and resisting knockdown to keeping balance during the fight, but her Defense Values remain unaffected. She does not suffer wound penalties until they are worse than -1 and completely ignores fatigue for the duration. Finally, the maximum benefit the character may obtain from her physical Attribute Excellencies increases to (Attribute + Essence). Relentless Lunar Fury’s real power lies in other Charms. Certain Charms have the Fury-OK keyword. These Charms describe special (but related) effects that they have when activated simultaneously with the Relentless Lunar Fury. Any Fury Charm’s special benefit may be activated as a part of Relentless Lunar Fury without a Combo by adding two motes to the cost of Relentless Lunar Fury. These Charms’ fury effects always end with Relentless Lunar Fury. Characters may have the normal version of a Charm active at the same time the Fury-OK version of a Charm is active. A character may not activate more than (Essence) additional fury Charms at once.
Example: The Count’s wax soldiers surround Kajeha Lef, a Dexterity 4, Essence 3 Lunar. Activating Relentless Lunar Fury as a preface to tearing them apart, Lef also activates the fury effects of Painless Warrior Meditation and Wasp Sting Blur, bringing the total cost of Relentless Lunar Fury up to five motes and one Willpower. She could add one more fury effect (since she has Essence 3) but not more than that until she gains Essence 4. Normally, Kajeha Lef’s player may use Dexterity Excellencies to purchase four dice or two successes. While channeling her character’s rage, her player may purchase up to seven dice or three successes.
A Lunar’s fury comes with one drawback: The Lunar becomes so very focused that she cannot perform non-combat actions. The Lunar must continue to hunt and kill enemies until the Charm ends. With a successful Reflexive Willpower roll, the character can perform a non-combat action (at -2 dice) or come off the offensive for a single action. She can only stop the fury early by forcefully calming her anger and cooling her blood; to do so, her player rolls (Willpower) at a difficulty of the character’s Valor.
When a character activates more than three additional Charms in tandem with Relentless Lunar Fury (which requires Essence 4 or higher), the Charm becomes Obvious. Silver and white light flows around the character’s weapon and forms contrails to emphasize her prowess.

DURABLE BATTLE-MIND
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Relentless Lunar Fury
Durable Battle-Mind increases the duration of Relentless Lunar Fury by four actions.

RELENTLESS LUNAR HORDE
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: War; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Relentless Lunar Fury
Relentless Lunar Horde allows the Lunar to use Relentless Lunar Fury while leading a military unit, rousing her warriors into a frenzy. In addition to its standard effects, the unit increases its Close Combat Damage rating by one, increases its Morale by two, does not lose Endurance for the duration and cannot assume close formation. Used in this fashion, Relentless Lunar Fury's duration is counted in long ticks.

HEALING CHARMS

BRUISE-RELIEF METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 1m+; Mins: Stamina 2, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
Stewards heal quickly, the better to keep up with their duties. This Charm heals one level of bashing damage the character has suffered for each mote spent. She may recover no more than (Stamina) levels of bashing damage in a single action. Characters may activate this Charm even when unconscious.
A Lunar may commit two motes when activating Deadly Beastman Transformation in order to regenerate one level of bashing damage Reflexively each action; this does not stack with deliberate activations of this Charm for greater healing.

HALTING THE SCARLET FLOW
Corebook
Cost: 2m+; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Gift; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Bruise-Relief Method
Silver light shines from the Lunar’s wounds as lacerations close and bones knit instantly. When the light fades, all that is left are a few bruises. Each use of this Charm heals a single level of lethal damage. This miscellaneous action may be performed as part of a flurry.
When used as a Gift, requires the commitment of 3m and permits the Lunar to reflexively regenerate one lethal health level at the beginning of each action.

PURGING THE TARNISHED SILVER
Cost: 5+m, 1wp; Mins: Stamina 6, Essence 5; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-Ok, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Instinctive Stamina Unity, Halting the Scarlet Flow
A silver aura surrounds the Lunar as her most serious wound disappears. She heals one aggravated wound for every five motes she spends on this Charm.

SOAK ENHANCEMENT CHARMS

HIDE-TOUGHENING ESSENCE
Corebook
Cost: 1m per 2 soak; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 7); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
The Lunar Exalted know how to keep themselves alive. Stewards use this Charm to increase their soak. Each mote spent on this Charm purchases two points of bashing and lethal soak for the rest of the scene. A character may spend up to (Essence) motes, and this added, innate soak stacks with armor.

FRENZIED BEAR FORTIFICATION
Corebook (Modified)
Cost: 3m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 10); Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Hide-Toughening Essence
Just as the raging bear, the Lunar shrugs off even the worst blows inflicted upon her. This Charm reduces any bashing or lethal damage the Lunar takes by one level per wound inflicted. At Essence 4 and higher, this Charm affects aggravated damage at all. Once the character sustained an amount of damage equal to her (Stamina + Essence), this charm function ceases till the end of the scene and can’t be activated again.
When activated with Relentless Lunar Fury, this Charm functions for the duration. The character may not invoke the Charm again for a double benefit.

WOUND-MASTERING BODY EVOLUTION
Corebook
Cost: 12m, 1wp; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Frenzied Bear Fortification
Powerful Lunars can teach their bodies to acclimatize to even the most dangerous things, rending the Lunars proof against what has already hurt them. After activating this Charm, any form of attack or event that causes the Lunar harm (i.e., at least a health level of damage or a dot of trait degradation) ceases to be a danger to him for the rest of the scene. Raw damage from any such sources automatically drops to zero in Step 7 of attack resolution. Other sources of damage still affect the character: A Lunar can only use Wound-Mastering Body Evolution against one form of attack or damage at a time. Using this Charm a second time merely resets the Lunar’s immunity; the effects do not stack.
Divide sources of damage in the same way that Exalted separates weapons. Edged weapons form one category, blunt weapons are another and so on. Artifact weapons have their own spread of the categories separate from the mundane weapons but are not separated by magical material. Fire, strangulation, crushing, acid and the like all have their own categories. Some unique effects may not fall into any category, and thus always harm the character at least once before he becomes temporarily immune.

ARMOR-FORMING TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 1m per 3 soak; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 7); Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
This Charm resembles Hide-Toughening Essence, but the character grows bony plates rather than directly strengthening his body. This adds three points of bashing and lethal soak and one point of aggravated soak for every mote spent; the Lunar may spend up to (Essence) motes. Soak from this Charm is Obvious and counts as armor for the purposes of Charms and piercing weapons. The bony armor renders other armor unwearable (the size and shape of the Lunar’s body has changed), except for Moon-Faced Mail (see p. 128) and moonsilver armor.
When the Lunar shifts into war form, he may commit up to (Essence) motes in this Charm for as long as he keeps Deadly Beastman Transformation active. Other than the extended duration, it functions as normal.

STONE RHINO’S SKIN
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 7); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Armor-Forming Technique
Even terrible wounds bounce from the flesh of the Lunar Exalted. After an attack hits the character, she may use this Charm to set her Hardness against that attack equal to her bashing and lethal soak values. Ignore soak from armor for determining the character’s effective Hardness.

INVULNERABLE MOONSILVER CARAPACE
Corebook
Cost: 6m per action, 1wp; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 4; Type: Reflexive (Step 7); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Stone Rhino’s Skin
Moonsilver flows from the pores of the character’s skin to cover his body. This armor is so complete that observers can find no gaps or weaknesses. Even the head is completely covered, but the Lunar’s perceptions are not in the least impeded. The character gains +15 aggravated/+15 lethal/+15 bashing soak and, until the Charm ends, considers all attacks against him to have a minimum damage of zero. This stacks with armor, if necessary, and does not count as armor. When this Charm would end, the Lunar may reflexively spend another six motes to maintain it for yet another action. This does not count as Charm use.

LIMB-SHIELDING GROWTH
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 4m; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Gift, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Armor-Forming Technique
The Lunar extrudes a wide, flexible, bony carapace over the back of one of her arms, stretching from shoulder to wrist. This shield provides a +3 DV cover bonus against all attacks without any associated fatigue or mobility penalties, and does not restrict the use of the Lunar's hands. Unexpected attacks bypass this protection. The Lunar may also apply this shield as a costless Step 2 perfect parry without an associated Flaw of Invulnerability, even against unblockable attacks; doing so over-stresses the shield, however, causing it to shatter. A shield which is broken in this manner may not be reactivated for the rest of the scene. At Essence 5+, the Lunar may apply this parry up to three times within the course of a scene before the shield shatters.
When the Lunar uses Deadly Beastman Transformation, she may commit two motes to add a shield to her war form. If the shield should shatter, she must wait a scene before she may re-assume the war form to reactivate Limb-Shielding Growth as a Gift.

WEAPON-TRAPPING BODY DOMINION
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 4; Type: Reflexive (Step 9); Keywords: Combo-OK, Counterattack, Obvious, Stackable; Duration: Instant (One scene); Prerequisite Charms: Armor-Forming Technique
Lunars are the absolute masters of their territory, and no territory is more sacred than a Steward’s own body. This Charm may be activated in response to any attack that successfully rolls damage against the Lunar, provided that attack is made with a weapon not possessing the N tag. The character makes an unblockable (Stamina + Athletics + levels of damage inflicted by the attack) counterattack, opposed by the original attacker’s Dodge DV. Success traps the offending weapon within or against the Lunar’s body; her blood congeals into a powerful bonding agent at the point of impact even as her body extrudes a sturdy cage of bone to hold the weapon in place. The weapon remains trapped as long as the Lunar commits Essence to this Charm, up to a maximum duration of one scene.
Reclaiming a captured weapon requires a miscellaneous Speed 5, DV -2 action in which the attacker rolls (Strength + Athletics) against a difficulty of the Lunar’s Stamina. Should the attacker release her weapon while the Lunar holds it, a barehanded Martial Arts attack roll may be necessary to grasp it again in order to attempt to draw it out. The Lunar may hold up to (Essence) weapons with her body at once, but each held weapon imposes a -1 mobility penalty (as though from armor).

SUBSTANCE CHARMS

SCORPION AND TOAD ABSOLUTION
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency
Stewards are masters of their bodies and difficult to kill by treachery. Characters with this Charm may immunize their bodies against any poison or disease they experience. Activating Scorpion and Toad Assumption while suffering the effects, the character’s player adds three automatic successes to all (Stamina + Resistance) rolls to endure the effects of that disease or poison.

SCORPION AND TOAD ASSUMPTION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Scorpion and Toad Absolution
This Charm is a dramatic action to treat a target for poison or disease. The Lunar Exalt spends at least five minutes preparing the body, channeling the foreign substance within the target toward a specific place, where she then cuts the body and sucks out the tainted blood. This taste of the target’s blood exposes the character to the disease or poison that plagues the target, which she then must deal with on her own.


SCORPION AND TOAD IMMUNITY
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Scorpion and Toad Assumption
Lunars do not fear what they have conquered. A character with this Charm becomes immune to any poison or disease that he has survived. Once the foreign substance has run its course, it can never harm that character again. Exalted may make exceptions at will: A Lunar does not have to lose the ability to enjoy alcohol, qat or other recreational drugs. Once a character becomes immune, however, she cannot go back.

SCORPION AND TOAD MASTERY
Corebook
Cost: 1m+; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Poison or Sickness; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Scorpion and Toad Assumption
Creation holds thousands of unique poisons and drugs, enough to make a dedicated assassin or hedonist despair at ever having them all on hand. Some Stewards find another avenue, for which they were much-loved in the First Age. Once a character has suffered the effects of a foreign substance on her body, she may reproduce it (assuming, of course, she survives). The character may use a replicated drug, disease or poison in three ways:
• She may channel it directly into her system, feeling its effect immediately.
• She may excrete it onto a single weapon (natural or not), inflicting it upon the victim of her next successful attack. The usual method is to spit on a weapon. The character may activate Scorpion and Toad Mastery in Step 1 of attack resolution to invoke it with an attack.
• She can milk it from her flesh, much as poison-sellers harvest venom from snakes, creating a sample that may be used later.
Creating a poison or drug costs a number of motes equal to twice the substance’s Resources value. The cost to generate a disease is equal to the disease’s virulence.

ADDER FANG METHOD
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Gift, Poison; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Scorpion and Toad Mastery
Lunars who can reproduce Creation’s venoms sometimes invent their own. This charm adds a specific supernatural toxin to the list of those the character may create using Scorpion and Toad Mastery. (The attack must cause at least a level of damage to convey the poison, as normal.)
This venom is known as Luna’s Spite and has Damage (character’s Essence x 2)L/tick, Toxicity (character’s Stamina + 1), Tolerance —/—, Penalty-(Essence). People who die of Luna’s Spite grow very pale, and their eyes become silvery masks.
Luna’s Spite is just one of many toxins the character can create. Here are other sample toxins. Each requires four experience points or two bonus points to learn.
Chosen’s Bane: Damage 6L/tick, Toxicity (target’s Essence), Tolerance —/—, Penalty -(target’s Essence).
Closing Eye Toxin: Damage 5B/12 hours, Toxicity (character’s Stamina-1), Tolerance (Stamina)/24 hours, Penalty -1.
Night’s Lure: Damage 13B/tick, Toxicity (character’s Stamina)L, Tolerance —/—, Penalty -0; poison does not take effect until the moon is in the sky.
Still Water Infusion: Damage 20B (4/tick), Toxicity (character’s Stamina), Tolerance —/—, Penalty -1; actually inflicts 4 bashing each tick.
Adder Fang Method is a Gift Charm. By committing four motes, the character makes the toxin constantly available while she remains in her beastman form. This is not optional; if she uses Adder Fang Method in this way, it affects every one of her natural attacks while in war form. She cannot use more than one toxin in this way at a single time.

COBRA EYE METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Scorpion and Toad Mastery
In addition to injecting a venom with his attacks, the Lunar can also learn exude acid from his palms or spit it from his mouth. Cobra Eye Method adds acids and other damaging reagents to the list of natural substances he can, after experiencing them, create. This Charm is a single attack, either a natural attack or a launch from the character’s mouth. The latter attack uses (Dexterity + [Athletics or Thrown]) at a -2 accuracy, with range 5.
The character may also invent his own supernatural acids, each of requires four experience points or two bonus points to purchase. Samples follow. The Lunar receives one listed acid gratis when the Charm is purchased.
Burning Tar: This acid is gummy, sickly green and sticky. It inflicts eight lethal damage when first inflicted on a target and the same on each of the target’s subsequent actions until someone removes the acid. Scraping off the acid is a miscellaneous action (-1 Defense Value) that does not require a roll.
Foe-Softening Discharge: Clear and sharp-smelling, this secretion does not inflict damage. When this acid strikes a foe, the Lunar’s player chooses one of his target’s Physical Attributes, Appearance or Perception and rolls (Stamina + Essence) at a difficulty equal to the target Attribute. Success on the roll reduces that Attribute by one dot. Exalted heal this damage at one dot per week, but the damage is usually permanent for mortals.
Soporific Nectar: This white fluid gives off a powerful aroma that can set most creatures reeling. As long as the Nectar connects with its target, the Lunar’s player rolls (Stamina + [Medicine or Survival]) at a difficulty of the target’s Stamina. Success fills all the target’s remaining health levels with bashing damage down to the -4 box; only Incapacitated remains empty.
Steel-Eater: This dull gray, watery acid inflicts only three lethal damage against creatures and quickly loses its potency. When used to target steel objects, such as many weapons or armors, this acid inflicts 10 lethal damage and ignores Hardness. Characters do not soak this. Instead, their weapons or armor soak with their own damage or soak ratings, respectively. Each die of damage left afterward automatically reduces the target object’s damage or soak (or health levels, for items neither weapons nor armor) by one. Weapons reduced to +0 damage and armor reduced to no soak are considered destroyed. Some weapons or armors, especially family heirlooms, may be reparable at the Storyteller’s discretion.

TERRITORY CHARMS

NATIVE SON'S GRACE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 5m; Mins: Stamina 5, Essence 4; Type: Reflexive (Step 7); Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Stamina Excellency, Frenzied Bear Fortification
As with the hare or the fox, the character's den suffers while the Lunar escapes punishment. When an attack would hit the character, she instead deflects it onto a nearby terrain feature at the last moment. She ducks behind a tree, rolls under a table, shuts a door in the attacker's face or darts through the coral reef. All effects of the successful attack apply to the terrain feature, and this Charm doubles the attack's damage in Step Seven.
The character must be within an area that she owns as a person owns an object (see Exalted, p. 238) to use this Charm. Charms such as Boundary-Marking Meditation (see The Manual of Exalted Power—The Lunars, p. 170) help mark such territory.
Using this Charm with Relentless Lunar Fury allows the character to take advantage of her surroundings for the duration. Halve all damage she suffers before soak. Damage dice lost to this effect harm terrain used for the defense.
This Charm acts as a perfect soak, negating the damage of the attack. It does not negate any other repercussions of the attack. The Charm’s restriction to being used within the Lunar’s territory constitutes a unique Flaw of Invulnerability.

INDESTRUCTIBLE RECURSIVE DESIGN 
Lords of Creation
Cost: 8m; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple (Speed 5, DV -2); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Hide-Toughening Essence 
Lunars are survivors, accustomed to the hardships the world demands of its heroes. Knowing that misfortune is in­evitable, hardy Stewards prepare for the worst. With a few moments’ concentration, the Lunar causes his body to grow redundant physical systems—secondary organs, reinforcing musculature, additional ligaments. The character gains (Stam­ina) additional -1 health levels. These levels persist as long as the Charm remains active, and vanish as soon as damage is marked off in them; as the Lunar’s additional body parts are destroyed, they sublimate back into the Essence that formed them.

REPRODUCTION CHARMS

FISH OR FOWL GESTATION 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 1m; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None 
The breeding of beastmen was held to be a shameful and private activity in the First Age. Lunars in the Age of Sorrows cannot bother to be constrained by the squeamishness of their mates or contemporaries, and have delved into the outer limits of their generative capabilities.
In the proper circumstances to bring a beastman into the world, the character spends one mote at the moment of conception (or attempted conception, in the case of Lunars wearing a male form—this Charm does not ensure impregnation). By doing so, the character may imprint the child with features from any shape in her Heart’s Blood library, including her spirit shape, rather than being restricted to the form she currently wears.

TIGER AND SULTAN’S DAUGHTER 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 3, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Wyld; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Fish or Fowl Gestation 
The breeding projects of the Stewards sometimes require the bloodlines of individuals who would object to copulation with the beasts of the field. Principled characters who bother to learn this Charm permanently alter the parameters of the situations in which they may breed beastmen. Specifically, they are able to produce such half-breeds as the result of any male-female intercourse, regardless of shape, in the presence of Wyld energies. (The use of Fish or Fowl Gestation is required, though, if both participants are in human form. Being in one’s Deadly Beastman Transformation’s war form produces beastmen matching the Lunar’s spirit shape).

BEAST-LORDS OF THE BLESSED ISLE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Tiger and Sultan’s Daughter 
This Charm permanently upgrades its prerequisite, removing the Wyld keyword. The Lunar may now produce beastmen as the result of any sexual intercourse, regardless of the presence of the Wyld.

TIGER AND SEAHORSE DYNASTY 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Stamina 4, Essence 2; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Fish or Fowl Gestation
This Charm permanently enhances a Lunar’s control over his own biology, and, by extension, his offspring. At the moment of conception he is able to predetermine the gender, Attribute prioritization and one Favored Ability of his offspring. The child is also guaranteed to grow up to be a heroic character. If the Lunar wears a female form, she may also guarantee twins or even triplets.

Charisma

ANIMAL AND TRAINING CHARMS

DOG-TONGUE METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 1m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma or Perception 2, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Stewards may communicate with all things in their domain. Dog-Tongue Method gives a character the ability to speak the many tongues of animals. This Charm makes natural animals (or other creatures that potentially understand the same sounds and gestures) valid targets for all social attacks, because the Lunar can now communicate even the most complex ideas to them.
A character may choose to activate this Charm without the Willpower cost. This variation allows her to speak only to animals whose shape she currently takes.
When in animal form, a character using Dog-Tongue Method can also speak any human tongue she knows. With Perception 2, the character also understands the speech of animals while this Charm is active. Lunars may purchase this Charm with Perception 2 instead of Charisma 2; the Charm is often then called “Dog-Ear Method” and functions only to understand animals until the character also has Charisma 2. Purchasing the Charm in this way requires a Perception Excellency instead of a Charisma Excellency.

PACK INSTINCT AFFIRMATION
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp, 1xp; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Dog-Tongue Method
Stewards need faithful companions. The Lunar uses this Charm on a natural animal already loyal to her, and can only use it if she has no familiar. This is a dramatic action of several hours of personal interaction with the animal. Pack Instinct Affirmation functions identically to Spirit-Tied Pet (see Exalted, p. 209) except as further noted.
If the animal is the same creature as the character’s spirit shape, the Charm increases the Familiar Background by two dots. Characters who have mastered the Shifting Knack Luna’s Hidden Face can also use this Charm on animals mutated by the Wyld. Some such creatures require more than three dots of the Familiar Background before they become the character’s familiar.

NATURE-REINFORCING ALLOCATION
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 2wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Obvious, Touch, Training; Duration: One week; Prerequisite Charms: Dog-Tongue Method
Lunar Exalted infuse their animal companions with greater capabilities. The character spends a week training the target animal, in which time she must spend at least five hours per day on this effort. Each use of this Charm allows the character to endow the target animal with one of the following:
• One additional dot of Strength, Dexterity, Stamina, Wits or Perception; none may be increased more than once.
• One additional dot of Athletics, Awareness, Dodge, Integrity, Martial Arts, Presence, Resistance or Survival; none may be increased past the character’s rating in the trait.
• One additional -1 health level; no more additional levels than the creature’s Stamina.
• Intelligence equal to that of a six-year-old human; familiars become as intelligent as a full-grown human, acquiring Intelligence 2.
• One point of mutation; giving the creature mutations larger than poxes requires additional weeks of training before it has any effect. Mutations natural or reasonable to the animal have no overt effect on appearance—giving poison to a snake might increase the strength of the poison. Other mutations can make the animal or familiar look quite strange.

SHARING THE GIFTS OF LUNA
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp, 1lhl; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
The Lunar Exalted may temporarily empower their followers, servants and friends with their power. A character focuses some measure of her Essence into a bit of her flesh, which she tears away and rolls into a small, bloody ball. By eating this, the Lunar’s companion gains a small measure of the Lunar’s power. Subjects of this Charm immediately suffer the Enlightened Essence Wyld mutation (see The Compass of Celestial Directions: The Wyld, p. XX; grants motes equal to [Essence x 10]) and gain an effective Essence of 2. The target’s initial Essence pool is empty. Until the character releases the committed Essence, the target can learn Lunar Charms at normal training time for 12 experience points each. The target only has access to this increased Essence, pool and Charms when this Charm is active (i.e., until the Lunar releases the commitment of motes).
Lunar Exalted can use this Charm on their familiars.

WOLF PACK TRAINING TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 2wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Mandate, Obvious, Touch, Training; Duration: One week; Prerequisite Charms: Nature-Reinforcing Allocation, Sharing the Gifts of Luna
Stewards inspire and teach the herd to defend itself—human as well as animal. This Charm trains a military unit and requires five or more hours of effort in any given work to be effective. This Charm increases the Drill of the unit by one for each week of training, to a maximum of four. The character also picks one Trait to improve: Strength, Stamina, Martial Arts, Melee, Stealth or Survival. The Charm increases that Trait for each member of the unit by one, to a maximum of four or the Lunar’s rating in that Trait, whichever is lower. The Lunar can train herself (increasing her own Traits) and the unit at the same time.
This Charm can be used with the Mandate of Heaven system. The Charm adds the Lunar’s Charisma to any roll to increase a target dominion’s Military rating. Using it on the Lunar’s dominion increases the dominion’s Limit by one.

LESSON OF THE WINTER WOLF
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Wolf Pack Training Technique
This Charm permanently enhances Wolf Pack Training Technique. The Lunar trainer becomes able to train an individual or unit to proof them against fear. This requires one invocation of Wolf Pack Training Technique per dot of the target’s Conviction before it becomes effective and complete. The process may work many ways, but always involves a brutal separation of the targets from their fear. Warriors who have completed this lesson never make or fail Valor checks while in the Lunar’s service. Exalted cannot be targeted by this Charm.

LOYAL BEAST-FRIEND ENLIGHTENMENT
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 6, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Nature-Reinforcing Allocation
This Charm permanently enhances Nature-Reinforcing Allocation. It increases the Lunar's training capabilities, allowing him to endow target animals with:
•  One additional dot in any Attribute and Ability. Assume the animal's Social Attributes begin at one dot. Although the creature might not be able to use them all (it can understand languages with Linguistics but still not speak any, and it is hard to navigate a Bureaucracy without words and writing), it understands how.
•  Intelligence 3, if the animal is his familiar.
•  Up to two additional -1 health levels and up to two -2 health levels. Each health level requires one invocation of Nature-Reinforcing Allocation.
In case it should come up, health levels trained via this Charm cost the animal (12 – wound penalty associated with health box) xp each, or (6 – wound penalty associated with health box) bonus points during character creation.

ERUDITE BEAST-MIND EXPANSION
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 6, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent ; Prerequisite Charms: Nature-Reinforcing Allocation
This Charm permanently enhances Nature-Reinforcing Allocation. It increases the Lunar's training capabilities. The maximum number of dots the Lunar can add to any trait that he is able to train becomes equal to half his Essence. He can increase his familiar's Intelligence by one greater.

SILVER BLOOD INFUSION
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 7, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Stackable; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Nature-Reinforcing Allocation
Stewards shape their realms' creatures. This Charm permanently enhances Nature-Reinforcing Allocation and the Lunar. The character may invoke Nature-Re­inforcing Allocation to makes one previous invocation of the Charm hereditary. The target must drink the Lunar's blood for the Charm to take effect. The Lunar also gains (Charisma + 2) extra successes on uses of Craft (Genesis) concerned with anything Nature-Reinforcing Allocation can target.

SNAKE-VINE INTEGRATION
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 8, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Nature-Reinforcing Allocation
This Charm permanently enhances Nature-Reinforcing Allocation, making plants valid targets. Plants begin with all Abilities and Attributes (except Stamina) at 0 unless they are already capable of mobility, and even their instincts are poor until they have at least Intelligence 1.
In case it should come up, the first dot of an Attribute costs 5 xp.

UNSTOPPABLE BEAST-WARRIOR INDOCTRINATION
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 7, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Lesson of the Winter Wolf, Loyal Beast-Friend Enlightenment
Herds and packs serve the Stewards without hesitation. This Charm permanently enhances Wolf Pack Training Technique. When using Wolf Pack Training Technique on a military unit of animals, the Lunar makes them into such unified armies that they achieve Might (Essence : 2) while under his command.

HOLY CHARMS

OUTWORLD-FORSAKING STANCE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Holy, Obvious, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
Stewards stand strong against the blandishments of Creation’s enemies. The character makes an argument that shapes his belief, protecting him from untoward influences. When activated in response to a social attack from a creature of darkness, this Charm acts as a perfect mental parry that defends even against unblockable social attacks. Outworld-Forsaking Stance may also be activated as a part of a physical parry or dodge, adding (Charisma) to the chosen Defense Value—but only against an attack from a creature of darkness.

FOE-TURNING REBUKE
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Compulsion, Holy, Obvious, Social; Duration: (Essence x 2) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Outworld-Forsaking Stance
With a single word, the Lunar shames the enemies that he and Creation share, forcing them to leave him and his alone. The player rolls (Charisma + Presence) at a difficulty of the target’s Mental Defense Value. If the roll succeeds, targeted creatures of darkness must cease approaching him and any people who are obviously under his protection. Shaking off this compulsion costs three points of Willpower. By spending a point of Willpower when activating this Charm, the Lunar may use this Charm with his Performance ability and target all creatures of darkness within range instead of just one.

SCATHING LUNAR CONDEMNATION
Corebook
Cost: 8m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Compulsion, Holy, Obvious, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Foe-Turning Rebuke
Powerful Stewards can banish creatures of darkness completely from the Lunars’ territories, sending the foul monsters away for a long time. Invoking this Charm, the player rolls (Charisma + Presence) against a single target or (Charisma + Performance) against a group; against creatures of darkness, double the successes before subtracting the target’s Mental Defense Value as an external penalty. If the roll succeeds, the target creature must travel as far from the Lunar’s presence as it can manage within the scene or spend two points of Willpower to resist. Creatures of darkness are more susceptible—they must spend four points of Willpower or travel away from the Lunar for the rest of the story. A character may only use this Charm on a single target or target group once per story.
Scathing Lunar Condemnation is perfect for use with a Performance roll to clear out enemy creatures of darkness. This Charm is most effective at eliminating lower-level enemies, because powerful creatures of darkness usually have the Willpower reserves to combat its effects.

MORNING BLOSSOMS BLOOMING
Lords of Creation
Cost: 12m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 7, Essence 7; Type: Simple (Speed 7); Keywords: Holy, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Scathing Lunar Condemnation
Enemies fear to tread lands Lunars claim. The char­acter dedicates where she stands to Luna and to Gaia, forbidding any foe of theirs from approaching her. Silver light shines on her from the heavens and flows outward, illuminating an area (10 x Essence) yards in radius with silver radiance. Effects within that area that are adverse to the Lunar, her allies or natives of Creation cease. Creatures of darkness treat being within the region as an environmental effect with Damage 1A and Trauma (Lunar's Essence)L.
“Effects within the area that are adverse to the Lunar, her allies or natives of Creation” is intended to mean all en­vironmental damage other than that generated by the Charm itself, the Essence respiration issues produced by the Under­world and Blight Zones within Autochthonia, and all hostile Shaping Actions. The Charm’s environmental damage has an interval of one action. The Lunar may reflexively grant or re­voke amnesty, excluding specific creatures of darkness from the Charm’s environmental damage (most commonly bound demons; or, in the Time of Tumult, the Lunar’s Abyssal or Infernal mate).

LIGHTNING-CALLING CHALLENGE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 4m; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 3); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Compulsion, Social; Duration: (Essence x 3) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Foe-Turning Rebuke
The Lunar curses the cowardice of his enemies, drawing their blades away from those under his protection and toward himself. The player rolls (Charisma + Presence) at a difficulty of the target’s MDV. If the roll succeeds, the target must direct any attacks he makes at the Lunar for the duration of the Charm. Shaking off this compulsion costs four Willpower points—two Willpower if the target is attacked by any individual other than the Lunar during the Charm’s duration. 
For a surcharge of one Willpower, the Lunar’s player may instead roll (Charisma + Performance) for the character to draw all enemies whose MDV is less than his successes to attack him. This Charm functions equally well in social and physical combat.

FASCINATION CHARMS

COBRA HYPNOTIC METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 7m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Social; Duration: (Essence) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Manifesting the hypnotic swaying that many creatures evince, the Lunar can slow or stop her enemies in their tracks. She may use this Charm in physical or social combat; in social combat, its Speed is six long ticks. The Lunar’s player rolls (Charisma + [Presence for single targets, or Performance for groups]). Any person whose Mental Defense Value is less than the rolled successes stops. That person immediately becomes Inactive for a number of actions equal to the Lunar’s Essence. This unnatural mental influence can be overcome by spending two points of Willpower.
Lunars use this technique in order to attack their victims without resistance, to escape from crowds and for many other purposes.

FORGETFUL VICTIM PRANA
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: (Essence) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Cobra Hypnotic Method
Lunars use this Charm to work in peace, and without leaving an incriminating trail. Forgetful Victim Prana causes unnatural mental influence on up to (Essence) targets, or up to a unit of (Essence) Magnitude if the Lunar spends an additional point of Willpower. Used in social combat, the Charm’s Speed is six long ticks. The Lunar’s player rolls (Charisma + [Presence for individuals or Performance for social units]) against the highest Mental Defense Value of all her targets.
If the roll succeeds, all targets will forget everything they experience for the next (Essence) actions, once the Charm ends. Until the Charm ends, affected targets act and react normally to whatever they experience, but they forget it all, including the activation of the Charm. Once the Charm is over, victims may spend one point of Willpower to remember what occurred for a scene or three points all at once to remember forever—if they ever have reason to try remembering.
The Charm affects memories, not physical evidence, and some changes are jarring. Wounds inflicted, objects broken and great distances moved become sources of remarkable confusion. A guardswoman who suddenly finds herself holding her sword may believe she drew it out for polishing or out of boredom, but not if there’s blood on it. In social events, this Charm is often more subtle. Movement at a party is easy to rationalize, as is picking up or leaving behind a drink or courtesan. Compulsions or Intimacies gained from forgotten social attacks remain, but often feel like the target’s own inspiration.

UNNOTICED CONFUSION ATTACK
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Cobra Hypnotic Method
This Charm may supplement any social attack, allowing the Exalt’s player to roll (Charisma + relevant Ability) Reflexively, and makes anyone whose Mental Defense Value is less than the successes on that roll forget the supplemented social attack. This unnatural influence may still be countered by spending two points of Willpower.

SUBTLE SILVER COMMAND
Corebook
Cost: 8m; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Compulsion, Social; Duration: Lunar’s Presence in days; Prerequisite Charms: Forgetful Victim Prana, Unnoticed Confusion Attack
With the great force of her personality, a Steward shares the power of her will and beliefs with another. This Charm is an unnatural mental influence that the character may exert even on targets that normally are not valid targets for social attacks, such as sleeping people. Such targets may only defend with their Dodge Mental Defense Values and suffer a -2 penalty to that. The Lunar’s player rolls (Charisma + Presence) against the target’s Mental Defense Value. Success levies a Compulsion effect on the target to act as though she shares one of the Lunar’s powerful beliefs. The target acts as though she has the character’s Motivation, one of the character’s Intimacies or one Virtue equal to the Lunar’s (which must be rated at three dots or higher). This compulsion becomes the greatest thing in the target’s life, overwhelming other Intimacies and the target’s natural Motivation for the duration.
Targets of this Charm may spend a point of Willpower to resist the compulsion for a full day or three points to cancel it entirely. People targeted when they were unaware of the Charm never know they had anything other than a sudden epiphany. Other targets know the Lunar somehow inspired them to a different belief.

INTERACTION CHARMS

RAPID-SPEECH TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 1m per penalty; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Lunar Exalted learn how to get their points across—all of them—without sacrificing effectiveness. Each mote spent on this Charm reduces the multiple action penalties on a single social attack by one, to a minimum of -1.

SECRET SPEECH METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Rapid-Speech Technique
Stewards work in the night to protect what they govern during the day. At times, it would hurt their plans more to be heard by unknown ears than to be ignored. Any social attack supplemented by this Charm can be detected only by individuals selected by the Lunar, up to (Essence x 2) people at a single time. Stewards use Secret Speech Method for secrecy when they suspect the presence of spies or to limit the targets of a broadcast Performance-based attack. The Lunar’s player must roll (Charisma + Performance), however. Any non-targeted person whose Dodge Mental Defense Value is less than the rolled successes suffers an illusion effect: Instead of the Lunar’s message, the person hears ordinary chit-chat, a bloviating speech or some other content-free communication that suits the circumstances.

INSTINCT MEMORY INSERTION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Lunar Exalted tell memorable tales. This Charm supplements a Charisma-based action to relate information to another person, whether it is a long-winded story, a series of brief but complex instructions or boring genealogy of an important family. The information becomes supernaturally memorable to the target or targets, giving them the storyteller’s (Charisma) in bonus dice to any attempt to remember the information, details and all, at any point in the future. Lunars use this to pass on their oral history while losing as few details as possible… not that they don’t occasionally embellish or leave out embarrassing bits.

CHARISMATIC LUNAR TRICK
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 4; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Instinct Memory Insertion
Lunars can become extraordinarily persuasive, to the point where their influence becomes difficult to shake off. This Charm infuses Essence into any form of natural mental influence the character attempts, forcing people to consider its validity and turning it into unnatural mental influence. It may be resisted with one point of Willpower, as normal.

PERFECT FEAR SCENT
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Emotion, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Lunars drive people’s fears into the open. This Charm supplements a Social roll to rouse the emotion of fear in one or many targets (using Presence or Performance). The roll takes an internal penalty equal to the group’s Magnitude. The Charm exerts unnatural mental influence on any target whose Mental Defense Value is less than the character’s successes. The Lunar may inflict a general fear, usually causing panic, or name a specific “fear of X,” which everyone then feels. Spending two Willpower allows a character to resist this influence for the scene.

MIND-BLANKING FEAR TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (5 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Instinct Memory Insertion, Perfect Fear Scent
The Stewards may inflict enough fear to wipe their foes’ minds clear. The player rolls (Charisma + Presence + Essence) against a single target’s Mental Defense Value. If the roll is successful, the character makes that person believe one memory to be false, a dream or otherwise not real. In effect, the character gets to remove one memory from the target’s mind. This Charm also creates an instant Intimacy to the belief that the memory is not real. It requires one Willpower per scene to pierce the illusion, and the effect remains until the target breaks the Intimacy completely.

TERRIFYING LUST INFLICTION
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Emotion, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Lunars bring out people’s desires. This Charm supplements a Social roll to rouse the emotions of hunger, lust or some other physical craving in one or many targets (using either Presence or Performance). The roll takes an internal penalty equal to the group’s Magnitude. The Charm exerts unnatural mental influence on any target whose Mental Defense Value is less than the character’s successes. The Lunar may inflict general hunger or lust, allowing affected targets to express the emotion in their preferred manners, or name a specific “lust for X,” which everyone then feels. A Lunar can instill any desire whose gratification brings physical pleasure, from alcohol to comfy chairs. Spending two Willpower allows a character to resist this influence for the scene.

HARD-NOSED DENIAL STYLE
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Stewards are not easily convinced when they do not wish to be. The character responds to any natural mental influence with a perfect verbal rejoinder, completely defusing the attempt to convince him of something. This Charm functions as a perfect social parry, even against attacks that may not be socially parried, and levies a -2 external penalty on all subsequent natural attempts to make the same, similar or supporting arguments for the rest of the scene.

FERAL SMILE TACTIC
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 5, DV -1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Compulsion, Emotion, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
The Lunar lets the world catch a glimpse of the beast within—her features take on a feral and angular cast, and her body language is that of a predator ready to strike. Her player rolls ([Higher of Charisma or Appearance] + Presence). All characters whose Dodge MDV is lower than the Lunar’s successes become incapable of launching any social attack at the Lunar intended to change her mind or demand action from her, unless the purpose of such social efforts is to beg her not to harm them. Should a character under the influence of this Charm attempt to attack the Lunar, his Join Battle dice pool is automatically set to 0 if he is the one to initiate hostilities. This unnatural mental influence may be overcome for one action by spending a point of Willpower, and characters become immune to it for the rest of the day once they have spent a total of three points of Willpower. Characters with an Intimacy of fear toward the Lunar may not spend Willpower to overcome this Charm so long as that Intimacy endures.

MILITARY UNIT CHARMS

FACE OF THE MOON CONCEALMENT
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social, War; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
The Lunar Exalted are masterful guerilla warriors who can lead a unit through thick brush without a trace. This Charm supplements an attempt to conceal a unit for ambush or to disguise a social unit’s intentions until the last moment. Subtract the Lunar’s Essence from the unit’s Magnitude when determining the dice pool for concealment.

MAINTAINING THE PACK
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 10); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social, War; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Lunars have their own personal brand of heroism, and Lunar generals keep their forces intact almost through force of will alone. A character invokes this Charm when the unit he leads suffers damage that would cause it to lose a dot of Magnitude. Instead, the unit remains one health level above Incapacitated and maintains its Magnitude as wounded soldiers refuse to flee the battlefield or confused supporters struggle against disillusionment.

MOONLIGHT CURTAIN DRAWN
Corebook
Cost: 3m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 5 in long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Social, War; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Stewards can display their might in an effort to protect their peoples. A great moonlit sheen spreads outward from the Lunar’s anima, enfolding everyone around him. People in a Lunar’s social or war unit redouble their efforts on his behalf, resisting adversity with all their might. Double the effective Magnitude of a unit the Lunar commands for the purposes of defense, to a maximum of (Lunar’s Essence x 2).

LION’S VOICE COMMAND
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, War; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
The Lunar’s voice rolls forth with the authority of the king of beasts, carried by every natural feature of the world. The wind conducts his words, walls will not bar his voice, and every leaf and blade of grass reflect his utterances back into the world. While this Charm is in effect, the Lunar’s voice may be clearly heard up to a mile away, unless the Lunar wishes it not to be. In mass combat, this Charm allows the Lunar Exalted to stock the ranks of their armies with heroes and sorcerers they have inspired, trained or sired. The character needs no relays when leading a complementary unit of up to Magnitude (Lunar’s Essence).

SOCIAL UNIT CHARMS

HERD REINFORCEMENT STANCE
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (Speed 5 in long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Mandate, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Stewards help shape societies, strengthening them as appropriate. This Charm targets one person or one social unit, immediately creating a fully fledged Intimacy in the target. The Intimacy is either to the target’s native culture or society or to the culture and society to which the target is currently exposed. If the new Intimacy is mutually exclusive with the target’s Motivation, the Intimacy fails; if it cannot coexist with an existing Intimacy, the Lunar’s player rolls (Charisma + Essence) at a difficulty of the target’s (Conviction + Magnitude) to override the conflicting Intimacy. (Individuals have Magnitude 0.)
When this Charm makes the target have too many Intimacies, one older and weaker Intimacy drops out at the end of the story unless the target makes an effort to retain it. Regardless, Herd Reinforcing Stance also functions as an automatic mental dodge against any attempts to undermine this new Intimacy for the rest of the scene.
Though there is no roll, this Charm uses unnatural mental influence. It may be countered any time within 24 hours of its Charm use by spending two points of Willpower (or four points of Loyalty for a group). After that time, the Charm-created Intimacy becomes natural to the target. This Charm functions in Mandate of Heaven to add the Lunar’s Charisma to a roll in defense against a conquest or diplomatic action that would obviously harm the dominion.

FORSAKING THE BLOOD POSTURE
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (Speed 5 in long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Mandate, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Herd Reinforcement Stance
This Charm is the reverse of Herd Reinforcement Stance. Instead of instantly creating an Intimacy for the target’s native or current culture, the Lunar creates an Intimacy against either of those societies. Assuming the Intimacy remains undisturbed, the target becomes a steadfast antagonist to the relevant culture, rationalizing the hate any way he likes.

CULLING THE PRIDE
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
Lunars excel at tearing the followers and believers away from their foes, leaving a lonely individual with no one to command. This Charm supplements any social attack against a unit and sets the points of Loyalty to resist the attack’s compulsion equal to half the Lunar’s Charisma.

TOPIARY CULTURE MEDITATION
Corebook
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple (6 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Mandate, Social, Compulsion; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Culling the Pride
Stewards shape cultures by removing weaknesses—or by dictating weaknesses. This Charm’s social attack targets a group. The Lunar’s player rolls (Charisma + [Performance or Socialize]) with an external penalty equal to the unit leader’s Dodge Mental Defense Value plus half the unit’s Magnitude. On a success, the Lunar’s player names one Intimacy that is part of the target unit’s Policy; that Intimacy becomes less valued and harder to defend. The unit must spend two Loyalty points for the group to resist any compulsion that opposes or is opposed by the targeted Intimacy.
The leader can completely remove this unnatural mental influence by spending eight points of Loyalty. Acting against the compulsion for a scene costs one point of Loyalty. Units that break off from a parent unit affected by this Charm must also spend eight points of Loyalty to free themselves of this Charm. Topiary Culture Meditation has no effect on individuals. In the long term, this Charm makes targeted Intimacies less valuable to the unit. Groups are likely to forsake Intimacies that become too difficult to maintain or otherwise represent a weakness.
Topiary Culture Meditation increases the difficulty of the targeted dominion to resist the Lunar’s dominion’s conquest or diplomacy actions by two, provided the Lunar can find an appropriate Intimacy held by the target dominion’s populace to target.

HERD-STRENGTHENING INVOCATION
Corebook
Cost: 8m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple (6 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social, Mandate; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Culling the Pride
Over the millennia, the Stewards have shaped societies into forms they desired. Lunars use this Charm to keep positive traits in a society while letting others fall to the wayside. Invoking this Charm on a target social unit, the player names a single Virtue (three dots or more) or Intimacy contained within that group’s Policy. The unit gains (Lunar’s Charisma) phantom points of Loyalty. The unit’s leader may spend this in place of normal Loyalty to resist compulsions that oppose the named Virtue or Intimacy.
The phantom Loyalty applies to the entire unit and to subsections of the unit. This pool does not replenish and is gone forever once depleted. Using this Charm twice on the same culture for the same purpose only resets or refills the pool, unless the player names a completely different part of the unit’s Policy. In the long term, this Charm can keep certain aspects of a culture constant while others change. When used with the Mandate of Heaven system, this Charm adds (Lunar’s Essence) to the target dominion’s Culture rating for any purpose (influencing or resisting influence) involving that Policy.

TERRITORY CHARMS

BOUNDARY-MARKING MEDITATION
Corebook
Cost: 12m, 1wp; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 7 in long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Mandate, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Charisma Excellency
The land knows its Steward. This Charm claims a territory for the Lunar. The target region must not be owned (see Exalted, p. 238) by another Essence channeler, and this Charm makes the character own the territory instantly. Boundary-Marking Meditation cannot target a region larger than (Essence x 10) square miles.
All the little gods within the territory accept the Lunar’s primacy; if any did not, the Charm would not have functioned. Within the territory, anyone who is not the Lunar or a native little god suffers a -1 external penalty to all actions. The Lunar may exempt individuals from this penalty by announcing this in the presence of the affected person or revoke this exemption the same way.
Characters who survey the land’s geomancy or view it with any form of Essence sight can see the boundaries of the Lunar’s territory. Thaumaturges’ instruments decipher the boundary as a mystic warning away, as if the land is owned by a being of great power. To Essence sight, the edges of the territory simply glow with a pale moonlight.
In the Mandate of Heaven, this Charm makes the character a savant in the region regardless of Background dots.

RANGING WOLF MARKING
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 5, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Boundary-Marking Meditation
This Charm permanently enhances Boundary-Marking Meditation. It increases the maximum area of that Charm’s targeted region to (Essence x 100) square miles. Purchasing Ranging Wolf Marking does not automatically expand existing uses of Boundary-Marking Meditation.

FERAL CAT TREAD
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 7, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Ranging Wolf Marking
This Charm permanently enhances Boundary-Marking Meditation. It increases the maximum area of that Charm's targeted region to (Essence x 1000) square miles. Purchasing Feral Cat Tread does not automatically expand existing uses of Boundary-Marking Meditation.

RENEW CHARMS

SACRED GUARDIAN RENEWAL 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 1; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: None
This Charm functions identically to the Solar Charm Phoenix Renewal Tactic (see Exalted, p. 200), save that the Lunar may only regain Virtue channels from appropriate stunts which serve to protect or promote anything toward which the Lunar has a positive Intimacy, be it a way of life, a place, a society or a specific individual.
As an additional benefit, the Steward is not required to spend Willpower to channel any Virtue she has purchased Sacred Guardian Renewal for on behalf of her Solar mate.

THOUSAND STREAMS DEFENDER 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Sacred Guardian Renewal
Luna smiles to see the passion of her Chosen when they rise in defense of the world her lover made. As a permanent upgrade to the Steward’s competence, she doubles the number of dice rolled as a result of channeling any Virtue she has purchased Sacred Guardian Renewal for on any action which protects or promotes anything toward which the Lunar has a positive Intimacy.

MOON FOLLOWS SUN ASSURANCE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: —; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 2; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Sacred Guardian Renewal
Some Stewards dedicate themselves to the protection of their Solar mate above all other things, discovering an inexhaustible well of resources with which to do so, far beyond those of other Lunar Exalted. Whenever the Lunar would regain Willpower from a stunt that assisted her Solar mate in some way, she may instead choose to restore one die to her Solar Bond pool.

LUNAR ECLIPSE TECHNIQUE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (1m); Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 2; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Sacred Guardian Renewal
In the First Age, it was considered noble and just for a Lunar to hone his skills to assist his Solar mate above all other things. This sentiment is less widespread in the Age of Sorrows, but some Sun King Seneschals still prepare themselves to stand by their Solars—even if they have not met them yet. When the character spends her Solar Bond dice, she may pay one mote to convert all such dice expended on that tick into automatic successes.

SILVER AND GOLD SPAN THE HEAVENS
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 1m per dot of Bond; Mins: Charisma 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Touch; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Sacred Guardian Renewal
Focusing her will through the bond built into her Exaltation, the Lunar repurposes that connection, pledging herself to the support of one of the Solar Exalted—not because she must, but because she wishes it so. This Charm only requires a brief touch (during which its effects are Obvious to the Solar being targeted, but not to any observers), although in the First Age it was common for it to be incorporated into formal oaths of fealty, pledges of brotherhood, or marriage vows. For each mote the Lunar commits to the Charm, she establishes one dot of Solar Bond with the Solar she is touching. This Charm may only be used to maintain a bond with one Solar at a time, and in no way obviates the Lunar’s existing bond; indeed, if the subject of her original bond is present in the scene, the force of that original bond rises up and mutes out Silver and Gold Span the Heavens, rendering the Charm ineffective until the Lunar’s original mate is no longer present.
The bond established by this Charm is mechanically considered a true Solar-Lunar bond in all ways (including the creation of an unbreakable positive Intimacy), save for the Knack Golden Widow Method (see Glories of the Most High: Luna, p. 35). The Lunar must pay one Willpower to voluntarily end this Charm; doing so does not erase the Intimacy created by her temporary bond, but the Intimacy may now be eroded normally.
This Charm's bond pool is self-contained; that is to say, it refreshes at the end of the story. For example, Lilith uses the Charm to create a three point bond to Dace, and then channels all three dice. The next day she cancels Silver and Gold Span the Heavens and creates a five-point bond to Panther. Because she already spent three of her bond dice from this Charm, she only has two left to use to assist Panther. After spending them, she cancels the Charm and bonds herself to Arianna, committing five motes. Now she has no dice left to spend to help Arianna until the beginning of the next story, when her Solar Bond dice pool refreshes. Lilith also has Solar Bond 3 toward Swan, her original mate; she still has three bond dice to channel to assist him, as that pool is separate from the one created by Silver and Gold Span the Heavens.
If used to target an Abyssal or Infernal Exalt, this Charm’s cost gains a one Willpower surcharge.

Manipulation

BELIEF CHARMS

FALSE BURROW PURSUIT
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
The Lunar’s magic brings a specific point or detail to the forefront of his target’s mind and makes it seem important. The player rolls (Manipulation + Presence) at a difficulty of (the target’s highest of Perception or relevant Ability). The relevant Ability depends on what the Lunar gives significance: Awareness for a visual detail or a scent, Socialize or Bureaucracy for particular wordings and Melee to notice something about a person’s blade katas, for a few examples. If the roll succeeds, the target notices whatever detail—be it a bent blade of grass in the field, a particular wording at a dinner party or part of a blueprint—and knows that it is important. Three points of Willpower throw off this effect.

MIRROR SIGHT DISMAY
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (4 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Lunar Exalted can be manipulative bastards. With just a word or a well-timed phrase, the character convinces a person or people that one thing they believe is factually incorrect. The Charm won’t affect general, emotional attitudes (such as an Intimacy for Lookshy) but can counter specific beliefs (such as thinking Lookshy’s alliance with Marukan is a good thing). The Lunar’s player rolls (Manipulation + [Presence or Performance]). Any targets of this Charm whose Mental Defense Values are less than the number of successes on the roll maintain this belief for the rest of the scene. Shaking off this unnatural mental influence costs two points of Willpower. The Lunar’s player selects the belief to invert.
When using this Charm on many targets at once, it does not affect anyone who does not hold the targeted belief in the first place. The Lunar cannot affect a group whose Magnitude exceeds (his Essence - 1).

LOST MIRROR FLIGHT
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Manipulation 5, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: False Burrow Pursuit, Mirror Sight Dismay
The Lunars’ experience with the Wyld makes most of them unhappily familiar with madness. Weaving a scene with his words, gestures and convenient props, the character introduces his target to one of the many insanities found in the Wyld. With the end of the speech, the character inflicts that insanity upon the target. The player rolls (Manipulation + Presence) in a social attack that cannot be parried. Success allows the player to name one abnormality of the mind—a strong obsession, phobia or similar malady—that now afflicts the target, at the strength of a debility. At Essence 5, the inflicted derangement can have the strength of a deformity.
Targets of Lost Mirror Flight must spend one point of Willpower to ignore the effects of the madness for a single scene. After subduing the insanity a number of times equal to (Lunar’s Essence x 2), the effect ends.
By adding a point of Willpower to the Charm’s cost, the Lunar may instead make a (Manipulation + Performance) roll, affecting a group with a Magnitude no greater than his (Essence - 1). Against groups, only lesser insanities apply (the strength of a deficiency).
Storytellers can use the Wyld derangements found in Exalted (see pp. 288-289), The Compass of Celestial Directions: The Wyld, or this book, pages 209-210, as guidelines for this Charm. They do not derive from Wyld energy, so Charms such as Order-Affirming Blow cannot right them.

MIRROR-SHATTERING WORD
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Manipulation 6, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Wyld; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Lost Mirror Flight
Luna rules madness in Creation, and her Chosen act in her name. This Charm permanently enhances Lost Mirror Flight. When using Lost Mirror Flight, the character may double the cost to make the madness permanent. In the Wyld, making insanities permanent costs only one mote extra.

FALSE BURROW GIFT
Lords of Creation
Cost: 6m; Mins: Manipulation 6, Essence 6; Type: Simple (6 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-Ok, Illusion, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Lost Mirror Flight
Stewards tend others' homes. This Charm instills in its target a false belief about their concept of "home" and reinforces this belief with an Intimacy. The beliefs that home is under attack, is already destroyed, is nearby or is lost forever count, as do the ideas that the target has been exiled from home, that home embodies certain political views or that home is a different place altogether. Instill­ing this false belief requires a successful (Manipulation + [Performance or Presence]) roll against the target's MDV. Against a group, the highest MDV contests it. It costs two Willpower points for a victim to ignore the belief for one scene.
Committing the Charm's cost invokes an additional Illusion effect. While the Charm persists, the world appears to support the belief. The target sees the ruins of a destroyed home city or feels the stones former countrymen throw at the returned exile. Releasing the commitment ends the Charm's effects in total.

TREASURE AS TRASH MISDIRECTION 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 2m; Mins: Manipulation 2, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Stackable; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency 
Such is the subtlety of the Lunar Exalted that they may openly bear the regalia of their station without drawing undue notice. This Charm enchants an obviously magical object the Lunar carries (such as an artifact or hearthstone), making it appear to be a wholly mundane object. A daiklave seems to be merely a large sword, while a Seven Leaping Dragon Stone appears to be an unassuming bead. This Charm may explicitly be used to make a Lunar’s moonsilver tattoos appear to be ordinary tattoos. This unnatural mental influence costs one Willpower to resist. The Charm must be invoked individually for each object the Lunar wishes to disguise, and Willpower must also be spent on a per-object basis.

INEXPLICABLE LUNAR WONDERS 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+2m); Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Illusion; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Treasure as Trash Misdirection 
For a two-mote surcharge, this Charm may be used to remove the Obvious keyword from any Charm the Lunar invokes. If possible, viewers ignore any clearly magical elements (such as great flashes of silvery Essence) and attempt to rationalize the Lunar’s action as a display of extraordinary but wholly mundane skill. If such rationalization is impossible, then they are simply confused as to how the Lunar accomplished whatever he accomplished, but remain sure that it is some manner of nonmagical “trick.” This unnatural Illusion effect costs one Willpower point to see through. Inexplicable Lunar Wonders may not be employed if the Steward’s anima is shining at the four-mote (or greater) level.

ANY-TRINKET ALLURE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 3m (+1wp); Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Treasure as Trash Misdirection
Noble Stewards are able to exploit the covetousness and greed of others, even if they have nothing to work with but a few rocks and sticks. Taking an object in her hand, the Lunar reflexively rolls (Manipulation + [higher of Craft or Occult] + Essence). All observers whose Dodge MDV is lower than the Lunar’s successes see the object as something else, as determined by the Steward. An object can be disguised as anything else within the following limitations: the illusion must be of roughly the same size and shape as the object, and it must be within two Resources dots of the original object’s value. This unnatural mental influence costs two points of Willpower to resist. Any-Trinket Allure will disguise an object for a week by default, or for one season for a one Willpower surcharge.

DEFENSE AND DISSEMBLING CHARMS

MASK OF WHITE JADE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Lunar Exalted are master dissemblers. When someone takes an action opposed by a difficulty or a roll based on the character’s Manipulation, such as trying to read the character’s intentions or motivations, the character may activate this Charm to make that action automatically fail. When the opponent’s action is supported by a Charm, the character must spend an additional point of Willpower to activate Mask of White Jade.
Multiple characters might use (Perception + Investigation) to detect a lie or deception from the Lunar. When that happens, the Lunar need not activate this Charm multiple times; one activation suffices to make the character unreadable to all observers for a single lie or deception.

CAT-FACE PRESENTATION
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Lunars’ intentions surprise their foes. This Charm supplements a (Manipulation + Socialize) roll to conceal the intention to make a social attack, making it an unexpected social attack. Only supernatural perceptions see through this deception.

LABYRINTH OF THE BEAST
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Cat-Face Presentation
This Charm briefly renders the Lunar’s own mind no more complicated than that of a simple, unenhanced animal, though always a predator. Losing all capacity for language and higher cognition temporarily protects the character perfectly against all forms of natural mental influence. Once the character’s intelligence returns, she remembers what was said, but the argument has already become impotent.

COMMANDED TO FLY
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Manipulation 5, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 9); Keywords: Combo-OK, Counterattack, Social; Duration: Varies; Prerequisite Charms: Mask of White Jade, Labyrinth of the Beast
Lunar Exalted use whatever means necessary to escape unwanted mental influence. This Charm exerts unnatural mental influence on the Lunar. The character invokes the Charm as a counterattack, then makes an attack on herself. Her player rolls (Manipulation + Presence) against the Lunar’s own Dodge Mental Defense Value (-1 for the counterattack). She may not “throw” the defense—her mental argument must truly convince herself. If it succeeds, the character successfully amends the foreign unnatural influence with additional commands that are impossible for her. Usually, these riders are as outlandishly impossible as the Lunar can make them.
Example: A Solar uses the Hypnotic Tongue Technique to compel Seven Devils Clever to climb a building and report on what she sees there. Successfully using Commanded to Fly, the Lunar amends the command to become “climb a building using only your teeth and report.” It may not be truly impossible, but it is implausible enough for Seven Devils Clever now to ignore the unnatural mental influence without spending Willpower.
This resistance lasts only as long as the character leaves the Essence committed. Should she release the Essence while the unnatural influence the Charm amends remains active, she becomes subject again to the compulsion or the need to spend Willpower.

FEINT CHARMS

BUTTERFLY EYES DEFENSE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
When the Lunars cannot surpass their foes, at least they  can fake it. Whether the Moonchild fights with a grand goremaul or tooth and claw, he seems to move with impossible  grace to block or evade any possible attack. Butterfly Eyes Defense does not actually do a thing for the character’s Defense Values; the Charm merely makes a foe believe she faces a perfect defense, unless her player succeeds at a Reflexive (Perception + Awareness) roll at a difficulty of (Lunar’s Manipulation). The target may also spend a Willpower to ignore this unnatural mental influence.

BUTTERFLY EYES TREAD
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Ground that Lunars walk safely may betray others. The Lunar draws her opponent’s attention upward, distracting the opponent from the ground. This triggers a Reflexive (Perception + Awareness) roll in her target at a difficulty of (Lunar’s Manipulation). If the target fails, she fails to notice the treacherous ground. The target may spend a point of Willpower to ignore this unnatural mental influence. When someone affected by this Charm must make any roll to keep her balance or suffers penalties because of the terrain, the difficulty of that roll or the penalties imposed increase by one. Lunars use this to lead people into traps, or just to make their foes more likely to fall.

BUTTERFLY EYES FIST
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Compulsion; Duration: One action; Prerequisite Charms: Butterfly Eyes Defense, Butterfly Eyes Tread
Lunar Exalted distract and confuse their foes to gain advantage. Butterfly Eyes Fist is an action calculated to evoke a specific reaction in the target—it might be a threatening feint or a single, startling word. The Lunar’s player rolls (Manipulation + Presence) against a target within (Essence x 10) yards. If the roll achieves more successes than the target’s Dodge Mental Defense Value, the Lunar bewilders the target and gets to dictate what combat action the target takes when the target is next able to act. The target may spend two points of Willpower to ignore this unnatural mental influence.

MYSTIC BUTTERFLY FRAUD
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Manipulation 5, Essence 4; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Butterfly Eyes Fist
Luna’s tricksters know that the illusion of power is often as useful as power itself. This Charm enables a Lunar to convince onlookers that some ordinary object has magical powers. People actually see the sword blaze with deadly power, the potion purge disease or the jewel glow with channeled Essence.
The Lunar’s player rolls (Manipulation + [relevant Ability] + Essence). The Ability may be Melee for an ersatz artifact weapon, Medicine for a phony potion, Lore for a fake hearthstone, or whatever seems appropriate. Any target with a Dodge Mental Defense Value less than the resulting successes sees the supposed magical item perform whatever magic the Lunar suggests. Magical effects of great power, however, can impose external penalties: It’s easier to convince people of a false hearthstone than that a false Essence cannon just blew up a fortress. Anyone who spends a point of Willpower sees through the illusion; and the illusion fails as soon as anyone puts the supposed artifact or its effects to the test. For instance, a person might think a “magical” purse turns common pebbles to jade—but when he tries to sell the jade, the buyer sees only pebbles, points this out, and the illusion is revealed.

BUTTERFLY EYES FACE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 5m; Mins: Manipulation 6, Essence 6; Type: Simple (Speed 3); Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: (Essence) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Butterfly Eyes Fist, One of the Herd
Lunars are not who they seem. The target of this Charm suffers an Illusion effect, believing the Lunar to be a nearby person and vice versa unless the target's reflexive (Percep­tion + Awareness) roll beats a difficulty equal to the Lunar's Manipulation score. Spending one Willpower point allows the target to tell who is who for one action. After the target has spent three Willpower, the effect ends.

BUTTERFLY EYES ENHANCEMENT
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Manipulation 8, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Any Butterfly Eyes Charm
This Charm permanently enhances all Butterfly Eyes Charms the Lunar knows. Their costs increase by one mote, and the Willpower cost to fend off their mental influence increases by one.

INTERACTION CHARMS

CHATTERING MAGPIE INFLECTION
Corebook
Cost: 3m per; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive (Step 1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: One tick; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
The Lunar Exalted are inherently flexible, not just in their form but in their attention. Chattering Magpie Inflection enables a character to make many more social attacks in a single flurry than normal, increasing the rate of all social “weapons” by one for every three motes spent. This Charm can no more than double a social attack’s rate.

FALLING LEAF DISTRACTION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Lunars are skilled at misdirection, and they are subtle socialites. This Charm supplements any social attack and makes it difficult to notice. Characters using this Charm say something unthreatening and unrelated to relevant topics in such a way that it elicits the proper response to the intended attack. Players of characters targeted by Falling Leaf Distraction Technique may make (Perception + Investigation) rolls at a difficulty equal to the Lunar’s ([Manipulation + Socialize] ÷ 2) for their characters to notice the attack’s source. Characters recognize they are being convinced of something but generally chalk it up to changing their own minds if they cannot find another cause.
Lunar Exalted use this Charm to conceal social attacks in innocent conversation, oration or even musical performances.

THIRD-VEIL SUGGESTION
Corebook
Cost: 3m, 1wp; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 4; Type: Simple (Speed 3, long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Falling Leaf Distraction
Lunar Exalted are not limited to one conversation at a time. Shaping words with his Essence, the character can speak to one individual while simultaneously carrying on a separate conversation or oration. Only the target of the Lunar’s second speech can hear those words. The character need not speak to the public to conceal his secret words; any significant ambient noise will suffice.
Effectively, the character makes social attacks that only one person notices. The character may change this target within the scene. Talking to conceal the speech does not consume any action. Attacks made in the secret speech benefit from two automatic successes, but remain natural mental influence.

PERFECTION OF THE MOCKINGBIRD
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Even without a person’s heart’s blood, a Lunar can fool most people about her identity. When making an action to imitate another person’s voice, habit or appearance—or just trying not to be recognized as herself—the character may use this Charm to make the imitation supernaturally deceptive. The imitation sounds or looks perfect; no mundane sense can detect a flaw. Supernaturally perceptive creatures may see through the trick.

SCENT OF ALL NATIONS ATTITUDE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Perfection of the Mockingbird
The Lunar Exalted are most at home when walking abroad. Gathering Essence from the four winds and the earth below, the Lunar becomes a citizen of the world. Though her outward appearance does not change, there is something familiar about her to all that meet her. To a Haltan, she seems like a Haltan; to a Delzahn nomad, she seems a fellow rider of the sands; to a Dynast, she seems a native of the Realm. Observers simply overlook any differences in language, appearance, dress or mannerisms that would violate this impression. This Charm constitutes a form of unnatural mental influence costing three points of Willpower to resist for one week.
Alternately, the Lunar may select a particular nationality upon activating this Charm, and all she meets will believe this is her place of origin; for example, she might decide to present herself as a Haltan, and this is how she would seem to the Haltan, the Delzahn, and the Dynast.

MILITARY UNIT CHARMS

SCHOOL BECOMES SHARK FORMATION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Manipulation 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple (5 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social, War; Duration: (Essence) actions; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Stewards make the most of limited resources, including people. When leading a unit, the Lunar can invoke this Charm to make her soldiers or followers appear more numerous than they really are. Each soldier may bear two torches or paint figures on his shield; socialites can talk loudly or dance to seem twice as numerous. This Charm targets another unit and calls for a (Manipulation + [War or Socialize]) roll at a difficulty equal to the Perception of the target unit’s leader. If the roll is successful, the targeted unit treats the Lunar’s unit as double its Magnitude for all purposes until the Charm ends.

SCHOOL IN THE REEDS TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (5 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social, War; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: School Becomes Shark Method
Through the Lunar’s powerful raw personality, she commands the organized dispersal and concealment of her unit—in this way, her unit falls from the eyes of its enemies. This Charm is an action to reestablish surprise in mass combat or social mass combat. The player rolls (Manipulation + Socialize), at a difficulty of the unit’s Magnitude. If the roll succeeds, the unit is hidden, imposing an external penalty equal to the Lunar’s Essence on Perception rolls to find it until the unit declares itself by taking a new action.

FIRST IN SCHOOL ASSUMPTION
Lords of Creation
Cost: 4m, 2wp; Mins: Manipulation 6, Essence 6; Type: Simple (4 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social, War; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: School in the Reeds Technique
Stewards suffer no armies on their soil not allied with them. The Lunar causes the target military or social unit to treat her as its commander or leader for all purposes. She must be a solo unit to use this Charm. Her player makes a contested roll of (Manipulation + [Performance or War]) against the current leader's (Charisma + [Performance + War]); the Lunar suffers an external penalty equal to the unit's effective Drill. If successful, the unit treats the Lunar as its leader for the rest of the scene. The previous leader becomes a solo unit or, if he's willing, a special character in the stolen unit.
When individuals in a stolen unit normally recognize their true leader through supernatural means—if they're zombies with a link to the necromancer who raised them, for instance, or creatures created through sorcery—this Charm functions for (Essence x 2) long ticks before it ends. If the original leader (or a legitimate replacement) does not reclaim command, the group becomes a mob. Lunars who look too different from a legitimate leader—such as a dash­ing human commanding stolen demon troops—suffer the same time restriction.

SOCIAL UNIT CHARMS

CREATING THE WOLF ATTITUDE
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (6 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Emotion, Mandate; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Stewards tell their people what to feel. This Charm is a Manipulation-based social attack to induce the emotion of fear in a social group with Magnitude 1+. The character must have spent several hours within the past year encouraging the desired belief within this group before using this Charm, and this Charm must be invoked within the presence of at least one member of that group. The Lunar’s player rolls (Manipulation + Socialize), subtracting an external penalty equal to the group leader’s Mental Defense Value plus half the group’s Magnitude. If the character succeeds, the group feels the emotion.
Creating the Wolf Attitude generates unnatural mental influence. The target group and any group of Magnitude 1+ that breaks off from the target group must spend six points of Loyalty to break free of the influence forever, or one point to ignore the emotion for a scene. The Lunar may loose pure fear, generally inciting panic. More creatively, the character may bestow fear of something within the target populace. The character might invoke fear of  an enemy to smooth political efforts. The nature of the fear is up to the Lunar. This Charm has no effect on individuals.
A character may use this Charm as a dominion action, the player rolling (Manipulation + Socialize) instead of a dominion dice pool for appropriate actions. The character must pay the cost for this Charm and any other Charms Comboed with it at the beginning of her next played out scene.

FEEDING THE BEAR PROGRESSION
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (6 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Emotion, Mandate; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Manipulation Excellency
Lunar Exalted encourage lust for life. This Charm is identical to Creating the Wolf Attitude save that this Charm triggers an emotion of craving. This can be a general emotion, causing the social group affected to indulge whatever lusts or hungers occur to it. More commonly, the Lunar triggers a craving for a specific indulgence, be it food, love, conquest or Haslanti tapestries. In the Mandate of Heaven, this Charm uses the same rules as Creating the Wolf Attitude.

GNAWING MOUSE MALAISE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Manipulation 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple (6 long ticks); Keywords: Combo-OK, Emotion, Mandate Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms : Any Manipulation Excellency 
Societies that stand against the will of the Stewards soon reveal their weak foundations. This Charm is identical to Creating the Wolf Attitude (see The Manual of Exalted Power—The Lunars, p. 175), save that it inflicts the emotion of apathy. The targeted group experiences a general lack of enthusiasm regarding its agendas and policies, and adds a +1 Loyalty surcharge the first time it spends any Loyalty within a scene. 
In the Mandate of Heaven, this Charm uses the same rules as Creating the Wolf Attitude.

Appearance

DISGUISE CHARMS

HIDE OF THE CUNNING HUNTER
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Appearance 2, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: None
This very basic Charm allows the Lunar Exalted to conceal any distinctive marks they might have, including their protective moonsilver tattoos. With just a second of concentration, any of the tattoos, scars or blemishes the character desires fade completely into the Lunar’s body, where they cannot be detected by sight or touch. (Supernatural senses still reveal them.) They remain hidden as long as the character commits the necessary Essence.

PERFECT SYMMETRY
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Appearance 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Appearance Excellency
In nature, creatures that appear more symmetrical are considered more fit to survive, better mates and therefore more attractive. Calling on her Essence, the Lunar gives herself an air of impossible perfection, doubling the maximum Mental Defense Value bonus or penalty she can inflict or benefit from based on difference in Appearance. At Essence 6, the Exalt does away with the limit altogether.

ONE OF THE HERD
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Appearance 2, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Appearance Excellency
Although one water buffalo can tell itself apart from another, a watching predator cannot do so. They see only differences in function—which is the most dangerous, and which are old or sick. Activating this Charm, the character’s face looks like everyone around her. Perception rolls to pick the character out of a crowd take an internal penalty of the character’s Essence.
Even if the character is alone, her appearance is so bland that no one can remember it. An observer must spend a point of Willpower to overcome this illusion of anonymity.

CLOVER CAN’T BE FOUND
Corebook
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Appearance 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: One of the Herd
Sometimes, it doesn’t pay to hide from the world—just the people who are looking for you. After activating this Charm, the character becomes entirely unnoticeable to all trying to find her. Not only can they not see her, they cannot discern her presence from the world’s reactions. They cannot notice people talking to her or moving around her, or the ripples she makes swimming in a river. Everyone else may notice and interact with the character as normal. Spending two Willpower lets a character perceive the nature of this Charm for a moment; finding a way to stop seeking the character requires only extraordinary mundane self control.

AIR BODY STYLE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 10m; Mins: Appearance 5, Essence 5; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Shaping; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Clover Can't Be Found
Walls and gates erected to hide prey from the hunter are of no concern to a Lunar. Likewise, the keenest eyes and canniest screening for her Tell only make a Steward laugh. Briefly draw­ing her anima into her body, the Lunar inverts her own physi­cal nature, causing herself to dematerialize. She may freely interact with other dematerialized beings and attempt to enter sanctums as a spirit would. However, should the Lunar’s anima flare to the 11m+ level it becomes visible even to those who cannot see dematerialized beings.

SHIFTING PENUMBRA STANCE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 5m; Mins: Appearance 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Obvious Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Hide of the Cunning Hunter 
Wrapping her anima tight around herself, the Lunar appears as a shifting congeries of light and power. It becomes impossible to discern not only the character’s identity, but even what manner of being she is. Even the most learned of savants are unsure whether they face a god, demon, raksha, Anathema or something even stranger. This is an unnatural Illusion effect, costing three Willpower points to resist. Such resistance only dispels the Charm’s supernatural confusion. The character’s precise identity is still impossible to discern, and if an observer has never seen this Charm in action before, she still might not realize she is looking at a Lunar Exalt.

INTERACTION CHARMS

NEW FRIEND AROMA
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Appearance 2, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
Animals know one another as friend or foe. Lunar Exalted sometimes share this instinctive understanding. A character may invoke this Charm at her first meeting with an individual to convince the target that the Lunar is her friend or foe. The Lunar’s player rolls (Charisma + Presence) against the target’s Mental Defense Value for this unnatural mental influence. Success creates an Intimacy in the target toward the character as a friend or foe, as desired. Recognizing and rejecting this influence costs one point of Willpower. Only natural mental influence or stronger Charms can make the Intimacy permanent.

OBSERVED PREDATOR INSTINCT
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Appearance 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Appearance Excellency
When a Lunar believes she is being watched, she may activate this Charm to confuse or upset those who spy upon her. Observed Predator Instinct can end their observation or cause them to make mistakes. The character’s player rolls (Appearance + [Presence or Performance] + Essence) against the target’s Mental Defense Value. People who succumb receive the unmistakable impression that the Lunar knows they are watching her, is watching them with equal care and is comfortable—if not pleased—with the arrangement.

GLANCE-ORATION TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Appearance 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Appearance Excellency
The Lunar’s body language becomes incredibly graceful, eloquent and effective. With a single sultry glance, a subtle turn of the head, the lightest caress or many other aspects of body language, the character can communicate as effectively and completely in a silent instant as he can with a lengthy speech. He can use Performance, Presence, Socialize and other Abilities potentially hindered by a lack of speech, and he reduces the Speed of all social combat actions by one while the Charm lasts. Outside of social combat, the character may communicate significant messages instantly.
Furthermore, the character can speak to anyone or anything, regardless of native tongue, though he may not always understand the answer. Many things are unable to comprehend the Lunar’s message or respond, such as rocks, but he can still communicate with them easily with only his appearance and body language. This is especially useful when a Lunar finds human form imprudent, but wants to tell someone that a Realm legion approaches or her child is trapped in a collapsed mineshaft.

IRRESISTIBLE SILVER SPIRIT
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Appearance 3, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 1); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: (Essence x 2) long ticks; Prerequisite Charms: None
When the Stewards focus their efforts, they can nearly match the Lawgivers in their skill at handling people and cultures. Activating this Charm, the character’s personality becomes attractive to those around her. People want to help her, the things she says make sense and she seems very convincing. She could act outgoing and positive or distantly alluring.
Irresistible Silver Spirit adds one automatic success to all social actions (but not her Mental Defense Values). The character ignores fatigue penalties and increases the maximum number of dice she may add from her Social Attribute Excellencies to (Attribute + Essence).
After activating the Charm, the Lunar’s player names an objective she wishes to achieve through social combat. Each action, she must make a social attack in an effort to reach that goal. It requires a (Willpower) roll to take any other action (even another social attack), and that suffers a -2 internal penalty. Her player must roll (Willpower) at a difficulty of her Essence in order to end the Charm prematurely.

STANCE-AS-THOUGHT STRIDE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 6m; Mins: Appearance 6, Essence 5; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Social; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Observed Predator Instinct, Glance-Oration Technique
Lunars inspire those around them. With this Charm active, every first glance at the character triggers a specific thought or sort of thought. The Lunar chooses if she wants every person who looks at her to think something specific ("she's dangerous," "she's hiding something"), to see what they most want to see in her, or to see what they least want. The Lunar does not appear as anything other than what she is, though. The magic is in the conclusions others draw. Perhaps the evil vizier believes the Lunar is here to aid the satrap, while the merchant's son believes the Lunar is his arranged wife-to-be, arriving just in time to eliminate his chance to flee with his true beloved. Or maybe the vizier knows with one look that the Lunar is harmless, while the son believes that the Lunar will help him escape his arranged marriage. This effect creates an instant Intimacy that remains until a subject eliminates it naturally.
This Charm’s effects constitute unnatural mental influence which costs two points of Will­power to resist.

DEVIL BODY, TERROR FACE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Appearance 7, Essence 7; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Stance-as-Thought Stride
Stewards also inspire fear. Every person sees her worst fear when looking upon the character using Devil Body, Terror Face, be it an overseer with baying hounds for an escaped slave or the fetich soul of Isidoros for an Exalt. This is an Illusion effect. All actions taken that oppose the Lunar suffer an external penalty equal to (Lunar's Essence - subject's Valor).
Victims of this Charm may spend one Willpower to make a (Willpower + Integrity) roll at a difficulty equal to the Lunar's Appearance. Success lets the person ignore the terrifying visage for a number of actions equal to her Integrity. Spending three Willpower outright accomplishes the same effect without a roll.

RIVER REFLECTS DESIRE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 3m or 5m; Mins: Appearance 5, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Stackable Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Appearance Excellency, New Friend Aroma 
This Charm may be activated as soon as a specific individual catches sight of the Lunar. Rather than seeing the Steward for who she really is, the target instead perceives the Lunar to be the person she most wishes to see at that moment. This unnatural Illusion effect costs two Willpower points to shake off for the rest of the scene. If the Lunar pays three motes, then only her target perceives her to be anyone other than herself. For a cost of five motes, all characters present perceive the Lunar as the target of the Charm does. The Steward does not automatically know who her target believes her to be. 
This Charm’s three-mote version may be invoked against a different target even when the Exalt is already disguised, though only the savviest Lunar tricksters are able to convincingly impersonate multiple unknown individuals at once.

DREAMS AND EXPECTATIONS STANCE
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 3m or 5m; Mins: Appearance 4, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion, Stackable Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: One of the Herd
This Charm functions identically to River Reflects Desire, save that the Lunar seems to be the person the target most expects to see, rather than the person the target most wishes to see.

Perception

CRAFT CHARMS

FLAW-FINDING EXAMINATION
Corebook
Cost: 8m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
So-named out of respect for Pasiap’s Children’s skill with a similar Charm, this Charm allows Stewards to see the flaws in their constructions and correct them—or destroy them. Flaw-Finding Examination supplements either a Craft roll to repair the item or an attempt to destroy it. The player reflexively rolls (Perception + relevant Craft skill). Each success on that roll reduces the time necessary to repair the object by one hour, to a minimum of one hour. If the character attempts to destroy the target, each success adds two dice to damage after the character hits it or one to the character’s rating on the feats of strength chart.

MONKEY SHAPING EMULATION
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Lunar Exalted show the world what it wants to see. This Charm supplements a dramatic action to craft any forgery or imitation. What is being forged is irrelevant as long as the character intends to craft an object that will be mistaken for another original work or by another artisan. Written letters, wax seals, famous paintings and sculptures, mighty artifacts, others’ appearances and more are all valid targets.
The action to create the object takes the normal length of time, but each roll takes no penalty from the attempt at forgery. A Lunar with this Charm has no special advantage in crafting, say, a daiklave that actually functions… but if he can craft it at all, he can just as easily make an exact copy of Tepet Arada’s daiklave Restless Wind… or if the Lunar can only forge mundane blades, he can craft an ordinary sword that looks just like the famous Tepet heirloom—assuming he knows what it looks like in the first place.

ESSENCE CHARMS

EYE OF THE CAT
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Stewards can see the impossible. The character automatically notices anything within eyeshot, earshot or scent range that is not currently a valid target for a Perception roll based on one of those senses. If it denies the Lunar’s player any roll whatsoever to notice or detect something, the Lunar sees it perfectly. This includes immaterial beings such as gods and demons. It also covers targets so perfectly invisible, scentless or silent that there is no chance for a Perception roll. Against targets that the character could notice, even if the possibility is slight, this Charm provides no benefit. Add the Lunar’s (Essence) in automatic successes when another Charm contests this effect.
Activating this Charm in conjunction with Relentless Lunar Fury provides its benefits for the duration.


DEVIL-RESTRAINING GRIP
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Eye of the Cat
What the Stewards see, they can command. This Charm targets a single spirit that the Lunar can perceive. The player rolls (Perception + Occult) at a difficulty of the target’s Essence as she binds the spirit to her awareness. If the roll succeeds, the spirit cannot stray farther than (spirit’s Essence x 4) yards from the Lunar. It may not dematerialize unless the Lunar allows it, and it must materialize if the Lunar wishes. If the spirit lacks enough Essence to pay for the Materialize Charm when the Lunar demands it, the Lunar must pay the balance. If they cannot afford it in a sum, the spirit does not materialize. No Essence is wasted.

GOD-CUTTING ESSENCE
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Eye of the Cat
Luna imbued her Chosen to overthrow the oppressors of Creation. With her supernal perceptive abilities, the Steward knows exactly where to channel her Essence in order to disrupt even an immaterial spirit. This Charm supplements any attack, allowing it to harm immaterial spirits and inflict aggravated damage against them.

SPIRIT-MAIMING ESSENCE ATTACK
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 4; Type: Reflexive (Step 8); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Devil-Restraining Grip, God-Cutting Essence
The Stewards have the ability to destroy gods and demons. The character invokes this Charm when he inflicts damage upon a spirit. He adds (Essence) to his post-soak damage, and a spirit “killed” by this attack is destroyed permanently.

INSTINCTIVE ESSENCE PREDICTION
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Attuning herself to her sense of burgeoning Essence, the character gains an instinctive sense for how to counter its applications. When anyone the Lunar can perceive activates a Charm or magical effect, the Lunar’s player attempts a Reflexive (Perception + Essence) roll at a difficulty equal to the Charm’s minimum Essence requirement. (Effects without such a minimum are difficulty 1.) Success indicates that the Lunar knows roughly what the Charm does. (Use the labels for Lunar Charm Trees as a guideline for the degree of information the character gains, such as a Strength-based Crippling Charm from a fellow Lunar, or a Performance-based mind control charm from a Solar.) The player adds any threshold successes to contested rolls if the Lunar attempts to resist the target’s Charm with another.

ALL-ENCOMPASSING SORCERER’S SIGHT
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 1); Keywords: None; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Eye of the Cat, Instinctive Essence Prediction
This Charm functions identically to the Solar Charm of the same name. See Exalted, page 222.

GOD-BODY DISSECTION
Lords of Creation
Cost: 2m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 6, Essence 6; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Crippling, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Spirit-Maiming Essence Attack
Lunar Exalted weaken their prey before the final assault. The Steward sees all aspects of her target spirit as discrete pieces; targeting one, his attack severs it. This is a standard attack that eliminates one supernatural power, Charm or Combo from the target's repertoire if it inflicts at least a level of damage. The Lunar decides which power he denies the spirit. Lost Charms integrated into Combos can be used as part of those Combos but not alone. Spirits regain lost powers a number of days later equal to (Lunar's Essence - target's Essence). If this total is zero or less, the power returns at the end of the scene. When used in the Wyld, this Charm also affects Fair Folk.
This Charm may only eliminate Charms, Combos, and spells from target spirits and Fair Folk. It cannot target per­manent Charms, Native Charms, sorcery-enabling Charms or Assumptions. The target is still considered to know removed Charms for the purpose of fulfilling prerequisites for other Charms.

GOD-BODY CONSUMPTION
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Perception 8, Essence 7; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: God-Body Dissection
This Charm permanently enhances God-Body Dissec­tion. After successfully severing a spirit's power with that Charm, the Lunar devours it. It becomes inaccessible to the spirit until the Lunar's death.
This Charm may not permanently devour panoply Charms, such as the signature Charms of the Incarnae.

EYE ON THE SPIDER
Lords of Creation
Cost: 4m; Mins: Perception 6, Essence 6; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: All-Encompassing Sorcerer's Sight
Stewards are in tune with their protectorate, Creation. The Lunar's eyes shine silver with a rainbow patina, and he becomes aware of the threads that bind people to fate. He gains a general sense of where the Loom tugs them, incidentally adding a number of automatic successes equal to his Essence to divine a person's future (usually through the thaumaturgic Art of Astrology). More certain, the Lu­nar discerns whether any given creature is or is not bound to the Loom of Fate. No roll-off primacy.

EVADING THE SPIDER’S EYE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 4; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: (Essence) days; Prerequisite Charms: Eye of the Cat 
Canny Lunars know when they are being watched, and may use this heightened sensitivity to move through the world unseen—even by the pattern spiders. A Lunar using this Charm moves through the moments and spaces that escape the notice of the tenders of the Loom of Fate, rendering him invisible to astrological predictions and the Loom. All attempts to use the Loom or astrology to divine the Lunar’s location or future automatically fail. Furthermore, the Lunar may observe many secrets from his vantage point between destiny’s threads; all Sidereal Astrology becomes Obvious to his senses. If he chooses, he may even follow the threads of infectious destiny back to their point of origin; by starting with an individual who has had an ascending or descending destiny placed on him, the Lunar may track down the Sidereal who laid the blessing or curse, adding (Perception) automatic successes to all tracking rolls. This Charm does not inform the Lunar of which Side­real laid any given Sidereal Astrology effect on an individual; in order to find out, he must follow destiny’s thread and see where it leads.

SORCERY-RENDING TALONS
Lords of Creation
Cost: 15m; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 4; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: God-Cutting Essence, Instinctive Essence Prediction
Before Brigid discovered sorcery, the Lunar Exalted had to counter the world-twisting powers of the Primordials through other means. Sorcery-Shattering Talons permits the Lunar’s at­tack to disrupt sorcery, necromancy, and Sorcerous-keyword Charms. The Steward targets a spell or appropriate Charm and spends fifteen motes. The Charm or spell must be Obvi­ous to the Steward’s senses to be a valid target for Sorcery-Shattering Talons. If the attack successfully strikes the beneficiary of the spell, then the spell is broken as though targeted by the weakest level of countermagic capable of affecting it. If the spell creates or summons an automaton or spirit, the Steward’s attack must target that automaton or spirit. If the spell is a free-standing effect, such as Rain of Doom, then the attack must be gener­ally aimed at the center of the spell’s area of effect, and the ef­fect is considered to have a Parry DV of (Circle x 3) for spells, or (Minimum Essence + 2) for Sorcerous Charms. Should the Lunar successfully shatter a spell or Charm in this fashion, he gains (Spell’s Circle x 3) or (Charm’s Minimum Essence) motes for doing so. 

EYES AS MOONBEAMS METHOD
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 8m; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Eyes of the Cat, Keen Sight Technique
Condensing her anima into her eyes, the Lunar reveals all hidden things with her gaze. The character’s eyes become two burning silver lamps, throwing out foot-wide beams of illumination that stretch for (Essence x 100) yards. These lunar lamps have a number of effects, all of which are as visible to onlookers as they are to the Exalt using this Charm. Any dematerialized being caught in their light becomes visible so long as the Lunar continues to gaze upon them (imposing a -2 internal penalty to the Lunar if they are engaged in combat with any other characters); invisible characters are likewise revealed if this Charm wins roll-off against whatever magic hides them. Magical objects and structures sparkle and scintillate with a nacreous sheen when touched by the light of this Charm, while works of raksha glamour become wan and ephemeral, almost transparent. Objects originating in the underworld radiate a dark miasma, while those tainted with infernal Essence are enmeshed in a greenish, sickly haze. Finally, the Lunar may bend these moonbeams at sharp angles if she desires, allowing her to see around corners or off down narrow and twisting tunnels.

EXTENDED SENSE CHARMS

SENSE-BORROWING METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Touch; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
The Lunar Exalted can tap other creatures for their senses. This Charm requires the character to touch his target. Against animals with ordinary, animal intelligence and Essence 1, the Charm succeeds automatically. Against other targets, the character’s player rolls (Perception + Occult + Essence) at a difficulty of (the target’s Intelligence + Essence). On a success, the Lunar acquires access to all of his target’s perceptions. Attunement to or relinquishment of the target’s sense requires a dramatic action of one minute. While tapping the target’s senses, the character shares his target’s every sensation: sight, hearing, touch, taste and smell. He depends on his target’s Awareness or Perception actions for the volume of information—that is, the target’s player rolls to determine what scents or sounds she picks up—but effects that provide automatic successes add to the target’s roll to determine what the Lunar notices.
The character remains slightly aware of his own perceptions while experiencing those of his target. The Lunar may take actions at a -3 external penalty. Strong interruptions, such as violent shaking or taking any amount of damage, shock the Lunar directly back to his body, where he suffers a -1 external penalty to all actions for the next five actions. As long as the Essence for this Charm remains committed, the character may borrow the target’s perceptions at any time. The character can affect multiple targets simultaneously as long as he commits the Essence for each of them. Subjects of this Charm usually do not know they are “ridden” in this way, and detecting this Charm is a difficulty 3 (Perception + Awareness) roll even for characters who can see Essence flows.
Sense-Borrowing Method does not allow a character to control his targets’ actions or where they focus their senses. The Lunar must use other Charms for such effects.

PREDATOR IS PREY MIRROR
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Sense-Borrowing Method
Enemies of the Lunars fear them terribly, and the reputation is warranted. To really invoke terror and disorient her prey, the character shows the target the hunt from the hunter’s perspective. The character may only affect targets within speaking distance. Both the character’s and the target’s eyes shine silver for a moment, and the Lunar’s player rolls (Perception + Survival) at a difficulty of the target’s Perception.
Success forces the target to see through the Lunar’s eyes. The target suffers a -2 internal penalty to all physical actions when she is in the character’s vision and a -4 external penalty when the character does not look at the target. Additionally, only things within the Lunar’s vision become valid targets for the victim’s sight-based Awareness actions. In some cases, a Lunar may use this Charm on an ally in order to share sight. Willing victims make the Charm automatically successful.
Players of characters targeted by this Charm must also roll Valor at difficulty two. Failure indicates that the target’s fear overwhelms her. Her Defense Values drop by two.

WATCHFUL SPIDER STANCE
Corebook
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Sense-Borrowing Method
Stewards are as aware of their territory as the spider is aware of its web. The character using this Charm becomes completely aware of the region known as her territory. She must own the territory as a person owns an object (see Exalted, p. 238); she may target an area no greater than (Essence x 10) square miles at a single time; and she must be within the targeted territory for the Charm to function.
Once the Charm activates, the character may use Perception with any appropriate Abilities to notice or seek out things within the affected territory. Anything that normally would be a valid target for such a roll in her presence becomes a valid target if it lies within her territory. The character may enhance her perceptive abilities with any Charms at her disposal. This awareness of her territory does not conflict with her awareness of her surroundings, and unusual events within her territory merit Reflexive (Perception + Awareness) rolls.
Elder Lunars, especially paranoid ones, keep this Charm active at all times.

GRANDFATHER SPIDER MAJESTY
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Watchful Spider Stance
This Charm permanently enhances Watchful Spider Stance, and allows the Lunar’s player to declare conditions that allow the character to activate Watchful Spider Stance Reflexively and immediately observe the phenomenon. Examples include the following:
• When a person or party the Lunar does not know enters the territory.
• Various odd effects, such as unusual weather patterns, cultural migrations or encroachment of the Wyld.
• When a specifically named person enters the territory, subtract successes on any Stealth or Survival roll made to conceal that person from the Lunar’s Perception. If this number is greater than zero, the character may choose to Reflexively activate Watchful Spider Stance.
• When a Charm or Essence power is activated within the character’s territory, add the power’s minimum Essence requirement (if it has one) to the Lunar’s Perception. If that number is greater than six, the character may choose to Reflexively activate Watchful Spider Stance. Treat powers without a minimum Essence requirement as minimum Essence zero for this purpose.
Players should come up with conditions relevant to their characters. A character may not set more conditions than her Essence.

BLOOD ON THE WIND
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Once a true predator catches a scent, she never lets it go. This Charm supplements a roll to track someone. Once the character has her quarry’s scent, she cannot fail to track that target as long as the Charm remains active. Across hard stone, white-water rapids and through the most overpowering opium dens or raging firestorms, the Lunar does not lose the trail. She automatically gains one success more than the person she tracks in a tracking contest; this does not necessarily imply the ability to catch up.
When competing with opposing Charms, add (Essence) successes to the contested roll to determine which wins out. If the Lunar has tasted her quarry’s blood, the Lunar retains a benefit even if the rest of this Charm fails: Even when the Lunar is unable to close distance with her prey due to enemy Charms, the quarry also never accumulates enough successes in the tracking contest to lose her.

INEVITABLE SPOOR DISCOVERY
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Stewards know their territory better that most people know their bedrooms. The player makes a (Perception + Investigation) roll to detect the scents or Essence residue left behind by everyone who has passed through an area recently. The number of successes on the roll dictates how far back the character detects. One success provides traces from the last 24 hours, and each additional success doubles that number. The vast catalog of information available on a roll with many successes does not overwhelm the Lunar, and the character knows how recently (or within which time-category) each scent visited. These scents lack connection to names or faces unless the Lunar is already familiar with a person. Otherwise, the player receives a Reflexive (Perception + Awareness) roll to notice the scent of a person identified by this Charm when that person comes nearby. The player makes no more than one such roll per person in a single scene.
Characters may target weapons, concubines or other tools to lift the scents of people who have touched them.

MILITARY UNIT CHARMS

DIVING HAWK INSPIRATION
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, War; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
The Lunar’s example forces others to rise to her challenge. By firing a perfect shot, the character guides all other archers in her unit (whether she commands it or not) in their efforts. Until the Lunar’s next action, all ranged attacks by the unit ignore any bonuses its targets gain against ranged attacks due to formation.

BIRD FALLS FROM FLOCK TARGETING
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, War; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Diving Hawk Inspiration
A hawk can dive through a cloud of thrushes and kill only one. Borrowing that perspective, the Lunar uses this Charm to ignore all external penalties based upon Drill or Magnitude for specifically targeting a commander or special character within an enemy unit. In addition, if the Lunar is a solo unit, he does not need to rely on ranged attacks; he can wade into the enemy unit to attack a special character directly, if he desires.

PERCEPTION ADVANTAGE CHARMS

EAGLE EYE ADVANTAGE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 1; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-Basic; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
By increasing her ability to process what she sees and hears, the Lunar benefits more from the aim action than others do. This Charm is identical to the aim action (see Exalted, p. 142) with these exceptions: It is Speed 6, and it may add no more than six bonus dice. These dice accrue at the normal rate of one per tick of aiming, and the character can still abort the action at any time to attack her chosen target. If the Lunar chooses, she may continue to take normal aim actions after the Charm ends without losing any extra dice. Dice from this special aiming action do not count as dice from Charms.
Example: Magnificent Jaguar activates Eagle Eye Advantage and begins aiming at a target. For each tick he aims, his player adds one die to the attack he eventually makes on that target. After six ticks (the full action), Magnificent Jaguar’s player has six dice to add to that attack. The Lunar chooses to wait, taking normal aim actions until the time is right. Even after several normal aim actions, Magnificent Jaguar still has six dice “banked” for the attack.

WOLF EYE ADVANTAGE
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 1; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
The Stewards do their work with unclouded eyes. This Charm supplements any action. For that single action, the character ignores all penalties that arise from obscured vision or dulled senses.

RIDING THE SECRET WIND
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 4; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Wolf Eye Advantage
No obstacle keeps one of the Lunar Exalted from striking his target. This Charm supplements any attack, making any target within range a valid target regardless of walls, hard cover or anything else that might make them an invalid target, so long as the character is aware of them. He sights down a pathway that does not exist and sends his attack along it to his target, regardless of any mundane barriers in between them.

WOLF EAR ADVANTAGE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 1; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-Basic; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
This Charm functions identically to Eagle Eye Advantage (see pp. 182-183) except it is a modified monologue/study action (see Exalted, p. 171).

KEEN (SENSE) TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Keen (Sense) Technique is actually three Charms, functionally identical to the Solar Charm of the same name (see Exalted, pp. 225-226).

HEIGHTENED (SENSE) METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Appropriate Keen (Sense) Technique
The Lunar Exalted are nearly impossible to fool. Heightened (Sense) Method is actually three Charms, covering the same three sets of senses as Keen (Sense) Technique. Activating this Charm doubles any successes the Lunar earns on appropriate Perception rolls before applying external penalties, to a maximum of (Perception) additional successes. Characters in the form of an animal renowned for one of its senses (a bloodhound for scent, an eagle for vision, etc.) double the successes without limit for that sense.

WORRY THE BONE 
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Woe to those who would take what a Lunar chooses to hold. Grasping an object, which can include a weapon or artifact (attuned or unattuned), the Lunar activates this Charm, claiming temporary ownership of the item. So long as she commits Essence to this Charm, the object metaphysically belongs to the Lunar. Furthermore, attempts to steal the item from her suffer at a -4 external penalty. In addition to this effect, she may make a free counterattack in step 9 of attack resolution against any individual who attempts to take the object from her.

PERSON EXAMINATION CHARMS

BLOOD-KIN SENSE
Corebook
Cost: 1m, 2m or 4m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Everyone carries traces from the people they care about, and the Lunars can detect them. Blood-Kin Sense allows the character to detect the most important social tie the target has to another person. This is from the target’s perspective, which may change with time, or even with mood. The Lunar’s player rolls (Perception + Investigation) with a difficulty of the target’s (higher of Manipulation or Socialize). Success on this roll reveals the information.
Blood-Kin Sense costs one mote if the social tie is to a blood relative or spouse, two motes for a longtime friend or lover and four motes for a recent friend or a business associate, priest, commanding officer or other important person in the target’s life. People almost certainly have Intimacies toward the individuals they consider their most important social connections. If the object of this connection is present, the Lunar knows who it is in addition to the connection’s meaning to the target. Otherwise, the character only learns about the connection and not to whom it points—this Charm does not reveal names or appearances.
By spending four motes instead, the Lunar may simply declare an individual (whom the character must have met). Then, the Charm serves to determine the target’s relationship with the named individual and the importance thereof to the target. Tasting the target’s blood, at most a day before using this Charm, adds one success to the roll.
Lunars can use this Charm with an automatic success on any form they can take with their natural shapeshifting powers.

MOTIVE-DISSECTING EYE
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Blood-Kin Sense
Lunar Exalted have incredible insight into the souls of others. This Charm allows the character’s player to roll ([Perception or Intelligence] + Investigation) at difficulty 1. Subtract an external penalty of ([the target’s Manipulation + Socialize] ÷ 2). On a success, the character learns one of the following about the target (player’s choice):
• Motivation
• Primary Virtue
• A chosen Virtue’s value
• A previously unknown Intimacy
• A current intention, desire or emotion, including intent to attack someone
A character may attempt to learn many of these things simply by reading other people (see Exalted, p. 131), but this Charm provides that information more quickly, and often without any evidence on the target’s part. When this Charm is activated as a part of Relentless Lunar Fury, the character’s heightened awareness makes him aware of all attacks upon him.

LEAF-FALLING SCRUTINY
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Blood-Kin Sense
Stewards know who resides within their territories and what they can do. Lunars read people well, finding the smallest tells of familiarity and habit to determine a person’s training. They use this Charm in the following three ways:
• The Lunar may target specific individuals and determine if the target has a faculty with one named Ability. In general, this tells the player the target’s rating in the named Ability.
• A character may also examine someone and determine that person’s highest-rated Ability. In the case of a tie, the character learns one and knows that there are others; further invocations of Leaf-Falling Scrutiny reveal skills not yet perceived by the Lunar.
• The player can name an Ability, and the character judges everyone within her sight. The character detects people who possess the Ability at three dots or higher. People the character does not see (because they use Stealth or other means to remain unnoticed) are not judged. The group’s Magnitude may not exceed the Lunar’s permanent Essence.
This Charm allows a Reflexive (Perception + [the named Ability] roll at standard difficulty. When targets want to conceal their skills or natures, the difficulty becomes the target’s (higher of Manipulation or Socialize).
Lunars use the mass version of this Charm to quickly find people suited for a particular task: sailors to man a boat or warriors for a raid, for example.

FELLOW HOUND INSIGHT
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Eye of the Cat, Leaf-Falling Scrutiny
The Lunar Exalted recognize their own and can sniff out other supernatural creatures. When a character activates this Charm, his player names a type of supernatural creature. A single sniff or glance informs the character whether any being of that type is within (Essence x 5) yards, if the player succeeds at a (Perception + Essence) roll with a difficulty of the highest permanent Essence of any creature in the area, whether it’s the named type or not (but not counting the Lunar himself). The Lunar also knows who falls into that category out of those people he can detect.
Although there is a little or least god for nearly every thing in Creation, only self-aware and active gods trigger Fellow Hound Insight. Otherwise, activating it to detect gods in Creation would be a near-pointless endeavor.

OBJECT EXAMINATION CHARMS

EYE AND FINGERTIP WISDOM 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 3m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
Clever Stewards laugh at the feeble efforts of men and gods to hide their secrets. By touching a closed container, the Lunar instantly knows everything that is contained within. At Essence 3+, this Charm may also be used to touch a structure to gain full knowledge of its layout and floor plans, including hidden chambers (though not necessarily how to access them). This Charm does not bestow knowledge about who or what is in any of a structure’s various rooms.

HOLISTIC KNOWLEDGE TRANSMISSION
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 5m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (10 long ticks); Keywords: Obvious, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Eye and Fingertip Wisdom
Spreading his hands over a vessel of recorded knowledge (a memory crystal, a book, a set of wall carvings), the Lunar imbues the surface or object with his Essence, causing it to radiate a soft argent glow. For 10 minutes, he allows his Essence to permeate the vessel, then withdraws it into himself. The Lunar immediately gains a general knowledge of all information held within the targeted source. He cannot recall enough specific detail to quote passages (because he has not read them), but he knows generally what information they conveyed. This Charm transcends language barriers. 
The level of detail gained from this Charm is insufficient to allow the Lunar to learn Charms or spells, though he would become aware of, say, all the spells contained within a sorcerous manual and what they generally did. Actually learning the spells would require studying the manual normally.

NEST NAMES THE WASP 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 8m; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Eye and Fingertip Wisdom 
Lunars are familiar with the intimate ties between territory, object and owner. Spending a moment scrutinizing an object or structure, the character is able to determine who, if anyone, owns it.

WYLD PERCEPTION CHARMS

WYLD-SENSING INSTINCTS
Corebook
Cost: 3m, 1wp; Mins: Perception 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keyword: Combo-OK, Wyld; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency
By honing her senses, the Lunar attunes herself to the ebbs of the Wyld around her. So long as the character keeps this Charm active, the character’s player may roll (Perception + Awareness) to detect where the Wyld is nearest, where it is strongest and how dangerous it may be to her or her companions. After a simple roll, she may determine these things within a number of miles equal to her rolled successes. Outside of Creation, each level of the Wyld (Bordermarches, Middlemarches, Deep Wyld) doubles this range. (The Charm is useless in Pure Chaos, where distance is meaningless and everything is equally dangerous.)
Wyld-Sensing Instincts guarantees that any travel the character leads through the Wyld can avoid its worst perils. Only if her awareness fails her or a malicious intent conspires against her does she risk dangerous winds of Chaos. Even then, the player may make a Reflexive (Perception + Awareness) roll to detect the incoming danger, which should provide an advantage in the difficult times ahead. Wyld-Sensing Instincts never tells the character what sort of danger the Wyld presents. The Lunar may lead a group of no more than Magnitude 1 through the Wyld safely using this Charm.
A character using this Charm adds (Essence) successes to any Perception-based rolls to examine or find Wyld influence. Rolling (Perception + Investigation) to reconstruct past events, (Perception + Medicine) to determine a creature’s cause of death or (Perception + Occult) to examine the Essence resonance would all qualify, so long as the Wyld is involved. The character need not be aware that Wyld is involved ahead of time to gain the bonus, so long as the Charm is active.

RESISTING THE LURE OF MADNESS
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keyword: Combo-OK, Wyld; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Wyld-Sensing Instincts
Even Lunars, with their powerful moonsilver tattoos, can be driven mad or enthralled by the Wyld. This Charm alters the character’s perceptions, filtering the true experience of the capering joys and murmuring deaths to prevent madness. The character becomes immune to derangements due to Wyld exposure and Wyld addiction.
When invoking this Charm, the character may also target his companions for similar protection, but no more than make up Magnitude 1. Companions who wander farther than (Lunar’s Essence x 10) yards from the character are no longer protected, giving Lunars cause to keep track of their associates.

WYLD MIGRATION FORMATION
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keyword: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Resisting the Lure of Madness
This Charm permanently enhances Wyld-Sensing Instincts and Resisting the Lure of Madness. The maximum Magnitude the character may lead safely or affect with those Charms rises to (the character’s Essence - 1).

EAGLE-FISH TRANSITION PROPHECY
Corebook
Cost: 12m, 2wp; Mins: Perception 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Wyld; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Perception Excellency, Any Intelligence Excellency
Stewards use any means necessary to protect their chosen wards—including the Wyld. Some Lunars learn to read its tides of chaos and narrative nature, as a way to predict future events. Lunars use this to reduce the uncertainty of thaumaturgic astrology.
Eagle-Fish Transition Prophecy is a dramatic action that requires one scene. It resembles vision-questing in the Wyld, wandering through the chaos to find a relevant scene, but this Charm aids the Lunar’s perceptions and draws the proper clues to him. The player poses a specific question about the future, such as “Will Lookshy fall if I attack it?” or “How can I find the Sidereal Vlan Mors before he finds my lover?” Questions that are more specific pose higher difficulties to the (Intelligence + Occult) roll the player makes, as do questions with answers that are more complicated. The simplest yes/no questions are difficulty 1, while very specific questions with potentially lengthy answers are as high as difficulty 5 or 6. Some examples follow:
Difficulty 1—“Will my chosen culture flourish?” “Do the Arczeckhi attack Nexus before I can gather my pack?”
Difficulty 3—“Where do I find the secret to the Empress’ defeat?” “Does civil war break out in the current Realm before the 15th day of Ascending Wood of next year?”
Difficulty 5+—“How can I recover the lost Lunar Castes?” “Where am I in exactly 236 days?”
Results play out in a scene that the Lunar observes or experiences. Straightforward answers usually receive straightforward answers: an image of the culture flourishing or the city untouched by war is enough to communicate clearly. Questions that are more difficult reveal scenes that are more complicated, which the character must interact with to find his answer. Some questions have no “simple” solutions, and the scenes they reveal may be improbable, incomprehensible or far from immediately clear or useful.
This Charm has some consequences. Failing to meet the difficulty by two successes or more produces a flawed scene that the character does not realize is incorrect. Botching the roll gives the character a vision of whatever answer he most fears.

OUTLAND-NAVIGATING GUILE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: —; Mins: Perception 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Wyld-Sensing Instincts
The Wyld is merely a training ground for even stranger and more hostile frontiers. This Charm permanently refines its prerequisite, allowing it to be applied with regard to the Underworld, Malfeas, Yu-Shan, and even Autochthonia. The Lunar may sense the proximity of entry points (and exits) to such realms, navigate their dangers, investigate their oddities, and lead groups through them in relative safety.

Intelligence

CRAFTING CHARMS

LUNA’S BLESSED HANDS
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Intelligence 5, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Instinctive Intelligence Unity, Lunar Blade Reconfiguration
Lunar Exalted are unparalleled at crafting their native magical material. This Charm permanently enhances a Lunar’s capabilities, reducing by one the minimum Craft, Lore and Occult requirements required for the character to craft artifacts that are completely or mostly forged from moonsilver.

FORM-FIXING METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp, 3xp; Mins: Intelligence 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Shaping; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Intelligence Excellency
The single most important Charm known to Lunars creates the magical tattoos that protect them from the Wyld and fix their castes. The entire process of tattooing can take days—as long as the character thinks is necessary to get a feel for the novice Lunar’s aptitudes and life story. The user of this Charm also needs mundane tools and certain Abilities to prepare and use the moonsilver ink: Lore 3 to create the ink and Craft (Air or Wood) 1 to perform the tattooing. Alternatively, the character can do the work entirely by magic using Lunar Blade Reconfiguration. (This is not a Combo; the Charms may be used together by special dispensation.) The experience points spent are gone forever.
Note that this Charm also presumes the character himself is a tattooed Lunar: the Charm draws upon the stabilizing magic in the character’s own body to impart the enchanted tattoos to another Lunar. Recreating the moonsilver tattoos from scratch would involve crafting a four-dot artifact. Even with the help of Luna’s Blessed Hands, the intrepid character would need multiple Attributes and Abilities rated 5 or higher.

HARMONY WITH REALITY TECHNIQUE
Corebook
Cost: 10m or 20m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Shaping, Touch, Wyld; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Form-Fixing Method
Stewards’ dedication can pull wonders from the dreamland of the Wyld. This Charm uses the connection between Wyld and Creation inherent in every Lunar to make the target, one creature or object of any size, natural to and safe within Creation. To work this Charm, the Lunar must alter a target object in some way, such as drawing her personal symbol upon it; a living creature must hold or wear something the Lunar made with her own hands.
Portable objects affected by this Charm may be brought out of the Wyld without fear that they will evaporate into figment, while living things may leave the Chaos and live out their days in Creation without degenerating under the weight of its stasis. Objects too large to move do not fade quickly in the Wyld, though they become susceptible to its mutative energies just like any structure built out of Creation-based materials. Lunars sometimes use this Charm to stabilize buildings, caves or other small places created by the Wyld to use them for bases of operation. A Lunar may also want to preserve some oddity of the Wyld for study. Used at the edge of Creation, Lunars can slowly push back the Wyld’s boundaries a little patch of ground at a time. Using this Charm on objects too large to be moved costs 20 motes; all other uses cost 10 motes.
Things maintained by this Charm do not have their own reality. They share the Steward’s reality and that of Luna and Gaia. Unless someone in Heaven undertakes to connect the person or object to the Loom of Fate, the object remains only partially real. If an object tied to Creation by this Charm does not interact meaningfully with things naturally of Creation during a story, roll the Lunar’s Essence at difficulty 1, difficulty 2 if it does not interact with real things at all. Three cumulative failures on this roll indicate that the object’s reality is lost, and it fades away.
Creatures who were once part of Creation but are now too mutated to survive within it suffer a level of unsoakable bashing damage when the Essence roll fails. This damage cannot heal naturally unless the creature recuperates in the Wyld. After six cumulative failures on the roll, Creation becomes inhospitable to the creature as normal, generally forcing it to return to the Wyld.

RITUAL OF LUNAR STABILITY
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple (Dramatic Action); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Shaping, Wyld; Duration: One lunar month; Prerequisite Charms: Harmony with Reality Technique
Stewards must be able to protect their lands from the dangers of the Wyld. Activating this Charm is a dramatic action that requires the Lunar to pace the boundaries of her territory and mark it with Essence. This Charm affects a maximum area of one waypoint, the basic geographical unit of the Wyld—about 30 miles across. The Charm fails if anyone interrupts the Lunar before its completion.
Once the character has invoked the Charm, the Wyld energies in the region become quiescent. While the local abnormal physical (and metaphysical) laws remain the same, they do not change as long as the Charm remains effective.
This Charm cannot affect territory owned (see Exalted, p. 283) by another Essence user, which are more common in the Wyld than in Creation. While the Charm is active, Fair Folk (and other Wyld denizens) with Essence less than the Lunar’s cannot affect the region with shaping actions or effects.
A Lunar cannot always stay to protect the territory she claims in the Wyld. By sacrificing one dot of permanent Willpower (which the character may regain through experience points), the character no longer needs to spend further Willpower to maintain the Ritual of Lunar Stability and can give the Charm its monthly 10 motes no matter where she is. The perpetuated Charm is tied to a small object of the Lunar’s choice; destroying the object instantly destroys the Charm. Lunars use this Charm to solidify their personal redoubts or make their lands safer against the Wyld. In the First Age, the Ritual of Lunar Stability often accompanied an invocation of Wyld-Shaping Technique in the Deep Wyld to protect the new annexation from being reabsorbed by chaos.

LAUGHING INTO THE TEETH OF MADNESS 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 2, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
The Lunar draws his mercurial power into a tightly compacted and nigh-inviolable Essence core. Efforts to shape the Lunar are drawn into and rejected by this incomparable well of shapeshifting power, rendering her completely immune to all unwanted Shaping effects; the only sign that such magic has had any effect at all is a quick, bright flaring of the Lunar’s caste mark. In the First Age, some Lunars uneasily noted that their caste marks seemed to have very subtly changed shape after extensive use of this Charm.
Casteless Lunars in the Second Age who use this Charm risk aggravating the Wyld taint that infects their Exaltation. Every use of this Charm adds one die to the Casteless one’s Wyld Taint dice pool. These dice are lost at the same rate as normal Wyld Taint dice (see The Manual of Exalted Power— The Lunars, p. 201).

FLESH-SCULPTING ART 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 8m; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Shaping, Stackable, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms : Any Intelligence Excellency 
The Lunar is able to sculpt flesh like clay, painlessly passing her hands through the anatomy of her target with no difficulty. Each invocation of this Charm may be used to perform one of the following actions: 
• Automatically stanch a subject’s bleeding.
• Repair one Crippling injury, with the exception of full amputation. Even amputations may be repaired for a one-Willpower surcharge if the character is in the Wyld. 
• Produce cosmetic changes to the target, though the Appearance trait may not be increased or reduced. Exalted heal these changes, if undesired, after one week. 
At the Storyteller’s discretion, stunts may be employed to produce other potential uses for this Charm, such as hollowing out a pouch of flesh in which to smuggle goods or letters, which the character could later retrieve with another activation. The Lunar may use this Charm on himself.

ARGENT WEAVER ART 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (1m); Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Obvious, Shaping; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms : Any Intelligence Excellency 
Exercising mastery of her knowledge of pure Essence, the Lunar develops a series of artificial chakras at various points on her body, from which she is able to reflexively spin raw Essence into long strands of luminous silver webbing. These web lines may be fired up to (Intelligence x 10) yards, sticking to any object or surface they strike. 
Essence webbing may be used to add three automatic successes to any attempt to recall loose weapons or hurled projectiles, and they may be used to make disarm attempts at range. Alternatively, the character could use his Essence webbing as a lasso or net (see Scroll of the Monk, p. 158). The webbing is also useful for various acrobatic feats, including swinging along branches from place to place, hanging suspended from an Essence line and even climbing up an extant strand of Essence. (Essence lines have a [Strength + Athletics] equivalent tensile strength equal to the Lunar’s [Intelligence + Essence].) Other stunts are possible at the Storyteller’s discretion. Created Essence webbing lasts until the end of the scene, at which point it dissipates into a wash of silver motes. Each web line costs one mote to create.

ARGENT MUSE APPROACH
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 3m per die; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Intelligence Excellency
Lunars inspire others to make their dreams real. The meager are encouraged to be more than they thought possible; the mighty are illuminated by the unorthodox methods of the Stewards. To activate this Charm, the Lunar concentrates on a project being undertaken by another character, and offers instinctive commentary on the character’s method of approach. Inspiration strikes in the mind of the subject, igniting new creative ideas and methods. The Lunar may add one die per three motes to all rolls the target takes in pursuit of a certain project, so long as those rolls are based on a mental Attribute and the project is inherently creative in some way. The Lunar may bestow no more than (her Intelligence) dice to a single subject, and these count as dice added by a Charm.
If the character is acting as muse to her Solar mate, Argent Muse Approach’s bonus does not count as dice added by a Charm.

DEFENSIVE CHARMS

RIGHTEOUS LION DEFENSE
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 1; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: None
This Charm is identical to the Solar Charm of the same name (see Exalted, p. 199) with the following change. Rather than making inviolate an Intimacy to any ideal, the Lunar must choose an Intimacy dedicated to the protection of something, be it a way of life, a place, a society or a specific individual.

INTIMACY OF THE HUNTER AND THE PREY
Corebook
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Righteous Lion Defense
Lunars make it their duties and their lives to catch their prey. This Charm prevents a Lunar from betraying the hunt. The player declares a target the character currently attempts to capture or kill. Intimacy of the Hunter and the Prey forms an immediate connection between the Lunar and her target, creating a magically backed Intimacy towards that hunt. She treats mental influence to betray or forsake that hunt as an unacceptable order.
When the hunt ends, the Intimacy fades away. A character may have no more than (Essence) Intimacies empowered by this Charm at one time.

TRUE-TO-THE-PACK DEDICATION
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 2wp; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Righteous Lion Defense
Lunar Exalted often feel unbreakable bonds to their packmates. Activating this Charm instantly shatters any mental influences on the Lunar that turn him against his pack, his Solar mate, other Lunar Exalted or Luna. The character may activate True-to-the-Pack Dedication as a perfect defense against such mental attacks. Knowing this Charm also allows the character to designate whom he considers “his pack” by touching a person and spending a mote. He may mark no more than (Compassion x 2) individuals.
Activating this Charm with Relentless Lunar Fury perfectly protects the character against any mental influence that costs two Willpower points or less to overcome. This protection lasts as long as the fury itself.

EARTH AND ANIMAL CHARMS

MANDATE OF THE HUNGRY MOUSE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple (One dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
The Lunar seats herself in the lotus position and spends an hour entering a dreamlike meditative state, in which she considers a particular structured organization or group she has had dealings with in the past month. The character’s player rolls (Intelligence + Occult), subtracting an external penalty equal to half the targeted organizaton’s Magnitude.
If any successes are accumulated, then the Lunar’s anima banner appears around her as a dim, shimmering haze, barely visible; at the conclusion of the Charm’s use, hundreds upon hundreds of ephemeral vermin coalesce and scamper out into the world—mice and rats, hornets and serpents, centipedes and pigeons. Henceforth these phantom animals plague the efforts of the target organization: mice eat a bureau’s paperwork, rats spoil the grain allocated to feed a legion’s soldiers, snakes startle the horses of couriers along the road carrying urgent messages for the organization. All of the target organization’s endeavors take twice as long to execute as they properly should, and all rolls made to further their plans suffer a -1 external penalty. Only by beefing up security and tightening organizational standards may this Charm be effectively countered; the target organization’s leaders must take an extended series of dramatic (Intelligence + Bureaucracy) actions, each requiring a month of effort, in order to oppose Mandate of the Hungry Mouse. Once the leadership has accumulated a number of successes equal to (the Lunar’s activation successes times her Essence), the effects of this Charm cease, and the organization becomes immune to all uses of Mandate of the Hungry Mouse for one year.

WASP OF THE LABYRINTH TRICK
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 1m; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 4, DV -1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Stackable; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Any Intelligence Excellency
Having slain a foe, the Lunar may make use of her victim’s body. Upon using this Charm, a six-inch stinger emerges from the Exalt’s wrist. Targeting the necrotic Essence gathering in the corpse, she drives this spike into her target’s body, releasing her Essence into the cadaver and catalyzing the necrotic power there to form thousands of Essence-born parasites which spread throughout it. The parasitic larvae attach themselves to its bones and organs, while vastly slowing down its natural decay. The parasites animate the corpse on the Lunar’s next action, turning it into an automaton which is completely obedient to the her (use the traits for a zombie found on page 314 of Exalted).
The Lunar may expressly use this Charm on zombies to gain control of them with a successful Dexterity + Martial Arts attack; if the zombie is already under another being’s command, the Lunar must make an Intelligence + Occult roll at a difficulty of the current master’s Essence to wrest away control of it. Should the Lunar drop the mote committed to this Charm, the parasites dissolve and the corpse rapidly decays on the spot. If the undead was animated by previous forms of magic, it simply resumes its normal functions. The Lunar may animate or control as many undead as she cares to commit Essence to sustain.

MOON AND EARTH BLESSING
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 15m; Mins: Intelligence 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (One dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
A favorite Charm of the Wardens of Gaia, Moon and Earth Blessing instills a land with supernatural fecundity and fertility. The Lunar paces out the limits of the land she wishes to bless, stopping frequently to blaze marks into trees or stones, or to scuff patterns into the dirt that she believes will be pleasing to the Argent Madonna and the Emerald Mother. A single use of this Charm may bless a landscape up to (Essence) miles across. Once the Lunar’s circuit is finished, her nocturnal Essence suffuses the land. Even the most barren tundra, harshest desert or vilest swamp soon becomes fertile and abundant: new growth appears, the soil readily accepts crops, and small animals are drawn to the region. This area is marked with the strangeness of Luna’s blessing in minor ways; one pumpkin out of a patch might contain small glowing lights that drift away into the air rather than seeds, for example, while night-blooming flowers are likely to proliferate, and owls flock to the regions more than any other birds. All Survival rolls in the area reduce their difficulty to 1. This blessing lasts for a year and a day, after which the area’s fecundity may increase or disperse according to local weather and the persistence or lack thereof of efforts to cultivate the land (it is easier to keep a land fertile in the East than on a glacier in the far North, for example).
If used within a territory the Lunar owns, this Charm’s blessing lasts until the Lunar no longer owns the territory.


INSIGHT CHARMS

COUNTING THE ELEPHANT’S WRINKLES
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
Stewards have excellent memories for the past. This Charm allows the character to recall anything he has learned or observed with perfect clarity. Using the Charm calls for a (Intelligence + Lore) roll, although another Ability might be appropriate for certain subject matters. Even a single success calls back the memory in question in flawless and true detail. When the Charm is used to remember something originally conveyed with Instinct Memory Insertion (see pp. 166-167), success is automatic.

INEVITABLE GENIUS INSIGHT
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: None; Duration: One project; Prerequisite Charms: Any two Intelligence Excellencies
Lunar Exalted are brilliant, if erratic. Focusing her Essence, the character expands her mind and senses to encompass greater things. She becomes an unstoppable mental juggernaut, nearly immune to distraction and capable of reaching heights previously beyond her. Lunars used this Charm after the Usurpation to develop the moonsilver tattoos that protect them.
When the character activates this Charm, the player declares a single project or research target for the Charm. While this Charm is active, the character adds one success to all rolls related to her chosen research. Increase the maximum number of dice she may add to any rolls based on mental Attributes by her Essence. She ignores all fatigue penalties.
Until the project’s completion, the player must make a successful (Willpower) roll in order to take actions unrelated to her declared focus for a scene. Those suffer a -2 penalty. To end the Charm before concluding the project, the player must roll (Willpower) at a difficulty of (Temperance), something she may only attempt once per scene.

LESSONS IN THE BLOOD
Corebook
Cost: 1m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: None; Duration: One scene; Prerequisites: Any Intelligence Excellency
By spending a point of Willpower and a mote of Essence while tasting another person’s blood, the Lunar may temporarily use that person’s Abilities and memories. The Lunar does not have to take the person’s shape (though this Charm can be used with Prey’s Skin Disguise and Life of the Hummingbird). He may also call on the Abilities of a sentient creature whose shape he previously took using Prey’s Skin Disguise or other Knacks. For the next scene, the character can use either his own Ability or the other person’s, whichever rating is greater. Once the Charm’s duration ends, the memories and Abilities vanish forever. This Charm can only be used once per person, ever. Lunar Exalted usually reserve this Charm for important short term impersonations and emergency skill uses.

PREDATOR'S INSIGHT
Lords of Creation
Cost: 6m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 5, Essence 5; Type: Simple (Dramatic Action); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: One hour; Prerequisite Charms: Lessons in the Blood
Lunar Exalted learn much from their prey. By consuming the mind of a creature, the character using this Charm learns what that entity knew. Devouring a brain takes an instant (for the smallest), 10 minutes (for a normal-sized human) or longer (for behemoths and other strange creatures). More exotic targets require the character to consume the seat of their minds, which he locates with a ([Perception or Intel­ligence] + Occult) roll.
The character then has access to everything the creature once knew. For animals, this amounts to a few subtle instincts and familiarity with the region—the animal's den and sources of food. People's knowledge is more varied and valuable.
Any time during the Charm's duration, the character can rummage through the victim's memory as a miscellaneous action. The victim's clear memories are just as clear to the Lunar. Things a victim barely recalled require an (Intelligence + Investigation) roll to find, and the foggiest memories are at difficulty 2+. Digging out something the victim kept secret (while alive) requires the same roll at a difficulty equal to the victim's Integrity.
If the character uses this Charm on a target whose form he can take, he may spend one experience point to call upon the creature's memories as long as he retains the shape. (It is most useful to buy this benefit after a successful sacred hunt.) When in that form thereafter, he can activate this Charm to call upon those memories for another hour. Predator's Insight is a grotesque way to learn new Charms or Abilities, if the player has enough experience points to spend.

PERFECT OUTSIDER UNDERSTANDING
Lords of Creation
Cost: 15m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 6, Essence 6; Type: Simple; Keywords: None; Duration: One day; Prerequisite Charms: Predator’s Insight 
Luna’s Chosen are the ultimate outsiders, freely walking between nations and worlds. They are at home in the outlands, recognized as kindred spirits and ideal champions by the odd inhabitants of the Threshold and beyond. Upon purchasing this Charm, the Lunar selects a particular sort of outsider from the following list: Demons, Dragon Kings, elementals, ghosts, Jadeborn, Lintha, raksha. The Storyteller may add other alien races and classes of being to this list as he feels appropriate. When this Charm is active, the Lunar’s player adds a number of automatic successes equal to the character’s Intelligence to all social rolls for the character to deal with that particular class of outsider. Additionally, the Steward gains three artificial spe­cialties in all of his Abilities focused on the outsider in question. 
Additional outsiders may be added to this Charm for a cost of two experience points each. The Charm must focus on a single type of outsider, selected when activated, and if the Lunar wishes to deal with a different sort of being, she must deactivate the Charm and reactivate it.

DEFEATED TECHNIQUE MASTERY
Lords of Creation
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 7, Essence 7; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Training; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Predator's Insight
Stewards claim prizes from their defeated foes: part of their powers. The Lunar may activate this power to issue a formal challenge to an opponent of her own devising. This could take almost any form—a foot race, combat to first blood or to submission, to be the first to seduce the regional satrap… almost anything will do. The target is free to refuse the chal­lenge, but if she accepts and prevails, the Lunar owes her a boon to be named by the target. Refusing or failing to discharge this debt causes the Lunar to be punished as though she had broken an oath sanctified by an Eclipse with an Essence rating equal to her own. Requested boons may not be impossible or inherently lethal, but they may be very dangerous. 
By contrast, should the Lunar win, she may claim one of the target’s Charms. She may only claim Charms whose mini­mum traits and prerequisites she meets, and which she could have potentially learned either herself or with a Lunar equiva­lent of the Eclipse anima power. Sidereal Martial Arts remain inaccessible. While the Lunar has claim to a Charm, the Lunar may freely use the effect as though it had been learned with the Eclipse anima power, and the target suffers a three mote sur­charge on its activation cost. The Lunar’s claim ends after one month has elapsed, though she may permanently retain the power if she wishes as a Training effect. Doing so immediately cedes her claim over the Charm, restoring its cost to normal for the original owner. Charms the Lunar could normally learn retain their standard experience point and activation costs; Charms which would require the Eclipse anima power to learn cost 20 experience points and have a two mote surcharge when activated. 
If either the Lunar or the target agree to the challenge in bad faith (i.e., intending to rig the contest so that the Lunar may simply learn a power the target knows), the Charm fails to function.

SORCERY CHARMS

TERRESTRIAL CIRCLE SORCERY
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
This Charm allows the character to take Terrestrial Circle Sorcery actions. See Exalted, page 220 and page 252.

CELESTIAL CIRCLE SORCERY
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Intelligence 4; Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Terrestrial Circle Sorcery
This Charm allows the character to take Celestial Circle Sorcery actions. See Exalted, pages 220-221 and page 252.

PHANTOM CROSSFIRE FEINT
Ink Monkeys
Cost: — (+5m); Mins: Intelligence 5, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Obvious; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Celestial Circle Sorcery
The Lunar Exalted claim to be Creation’s premiere battle-sorcerers; thanks to Charms such as Phantom Crossfire Feint, this is no idle boast. The Lunar may reflexively pay a five mote surcharge when taking a Cast Sorcery action. She blurs and fades from vision, reappearing at a random point somewhere within one hundred yards… along with a number of Essence-sculpted duplicates equal to her Essence. This relocation never takes the Lunar or any doubles outside of the targeting range or placement necessary for her spell to strike its intended target(s). These doubles all mimic the Lunar’s every action, going through the motions of shaping a spell as she does; they are indistinguishable from the Lunar through mundane scrutiny. Opponents wishing to attack the Lunar must succeed at a miscellaneous Speed 5, DV -1 (Perception + Occult) roll at a difficulty of the number of duplicates produced in order to determine which Lunar is real, or else strike at random and hope to injure the true Steward. (It may help for the Storyteller to number the Lunar’s duplicates in order to keep track of them.) These duplicates vanish when the spell is cast or interrupted.

WYLD CHARMS

STILL POND INFLICTION
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Intelligence 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Intelligence
Excellency When Fair Folk threaten Creation, the Stewards deny them ground—and sustenance. With a mere touch, the Lunar dims all sense of a single target’s emotions, desires and Virtues.
For (Lunar’s Essence) days, a mortal target benefits from +1 Mental Defense Value, the difficulty to read the target’s mental state increases by one and the target becomes proof against any attempt to consume his Virtues for sustenance, as the Fair Folk do. This Charm only works on mortals; the Stewards can look out for themselves.

BURGEONING WYLD INFLICTION
Corebook
Cost: 5m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Shaping, Stackable, Touch; Duration: (Lunar’s Essence) days; Prerequisite Charms: Any Intelligence Excellency
Stewards aid their charges in indirect ways. Applying Wyld Essence with a caress or well-placed strike, the Lunar triggers a sudden mutation in her target. Against unwilling targets, the character can communicate this effect with a normal attack that inflicts no damage.
The Lunar’s player rolls (Intelligence + Essence) at a difficulty of the target’s Essence. Targets may submit willingly, adding one automatic success to the roll. Each success in the roll’s threshold becomes one point of mutation the character may dictate in the target. Mutations develop over the next five minutes, often painfully.
The Lunar has no power to make these changes permanent. The recipient does, if he has sufficient experience points to spend (see p. 101).

WITHDRAWAL OF ASSUMPTIONS
Corebook
Cost: 3m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Holy, Obvious, Stackable, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Still Pond Infliction, Burgeoning Wyld Infliction
Things from beyond Creation are the enemies of all Luna’s Chosen. Surrounding herself with a halo of silver-gold light, the Lunar strikes out at a creature of darkness and weakens it greatly. Touching the target, which usually requires a Martial Arts attack that may inflict damage, causes the creature of darkness to lose (attacker’s Essence x 3) motes in a brilliant display of Essence. If the target’s player fails a Willpower roll at a difficulty equal to the Lunar’s Essence, the attack also reduces the target’s effective Essence by one dot for all purposes.
Creatures reduced to zero effective Essence by this Charm are destroyed, though some may have the ability to reform or be reformed by another entity. Reduced permanent Essence returns at a rate of one per day; Essence pools refill normally.

ETERNAL WYLD GIFT
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Intelligence 6, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Wyld; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Burgeoning Wyld Infliction
This Charm permanently enhances Burgeoning Wyld Infliction, allowing the Lunar to double the Charm's ac­tivation cost in order to make the mutations permanent. In the Wyld, making the mutations permanent is free and mandatory.

DONNING THE RAINBOW MANTLE
Lords of Creation
Cost: 5+m, 1wp; Mins: Intelligence 7, Essence 7; Type: Simple; Keywords: Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: Withdrawal of Assumptions
Stewards command the surroundings they protect. Invoking this Charm surrounds the character in a diaphanous cloak of shifting sensations. Most stimuli are colors of Creation, but some are impossible, unknown hues, curious sounds, smells and so on. For the duration, the Lunar may use Charms with the Wyld keyword as though she were in a Wyld zone. Every five motes committed to this Charm increases the effective depth, from five motes for Bordermarches to 20 motes for Pure Chaos. The Lunar extends this capability to others at a cost of two additional Willpower per person.

Wits

CONCEALMENT CHARMS

THE SPIDER’S TRAP DOOR
Corebook
Cost: 4m; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Illusion; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Wits Excellency
Lunar Exalted are masters at concealing the truth. This Charm supplements any action (usually dramatic) to conceal something, whether it is a (Wits + Survival) action to hide from animals, (Wits + Stealth) to set up an ambush, (Wits + Investigation) to hide evidence or others. The concealed object becomes undetectable by any Awareness rolls using mortal senses.
By committing the Essence spent on this Charm, the character may attach an illusion effect. Any person who comes near suffers an unnatural mental attack with a number of successes equal to those rolled for concealment plus the Lunar’s Essence. Those whose Mental Defense Values are less than this value see the area as completely undisturbed and empty, even if they look exactly where the object rests. People who break through this mental influence must still find the object in order to see it.

THIEVING MAGPIE PRANA
Corebook
Cost: 3m; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: The Spider’s Trap Door
When necessary, the Lunar can make something disappear in an instant. This Charm is a Wits-based action to conceal something, making it possible to do so in scant seconds instead of the several minutes such an action usually requires.

MANY-POCKETS MEDITATION
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 5); Keywords: Combo-OK, Touch; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Thieving Magpie Prana
Occasionally, a Lunar must hide something where no one else can find it. Holding any object the character can lift with one hand, he invokes this Charm, and the object disappears into Elsewhere. For smaller objects, Lunars tuck them inside cloaks or pockets to conceal use of this Charm. Because the object is not actually on his person, it cannot be found by any natural means. Withdrawing the item is a miscellaneous action. A character can “pocket” no more items in this way than his Essence. Should the character release the Essence committed to an item (or items) hidden in this way, the item falls to the ground at his side.

SECURE DEN PRANA
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 4; Type: Simple (Speed 7, -3 DV); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Many-Pockets Meditation
Every animal cares about safety, and often, the Lunar Exalted also desire a touch of security. Activating this Charm, a character steps through an invisible door into a small area of Elsewhere just big enough for her to rest comfortably. The door closes instantly behind her, leaving her safe and sound within her small hole. Inside, the den looks just as the real place the Lunar feels most safe; over a significant number of uses of this Charm, the den may grow colorless and indistinct as Elsewhere becomes her safest location.
The Steward may rest there until she ends the Charm, at which point she steps back to the point she left behind. The Elsewhere refuge does not offer a view outside, so the character can only guess when it’s safe to leave. For four additional motes per person, the Lunar may bring up to (Essence) companions into her Elsewhere den. The den grows to accommodate them all comfortably. The door cannot be seen by any mundane means, so the character often needs to direct companions through it. The Lunar steps through last, but always on the same tick as when she opened the door. This means that everyone who enters must be within one move action of the Lunar.
When the Lunar does not enter alone, uninvited guests may attempt to dash through the door. All characters roll (Dexterity + Athletics) to determine who gets inside in what order. Characters with the lowest results get shut out. Ending Secure Den Prana is equal to the Lunar leaving the den: All inhabitants then leave, and no one may leave until that time.

INVISIBLE WARREN CREATION
Corebook
Cost: —; Mins: Wits 5, Essence 5; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Social, War; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Secure Den Prana
This Charm permanently enhances Secure Den Prana. A character may choose to increase the cost to 20 motes and 1 Willpower in order to carve a significantly larger refuge out of Elsewhere. The Charm’s Speed lengthens to long ticks. She may fit in a unit of Magnitude up to (Essence - 2).

RATS IN THE BASEMENT STYLE
Corebook (Modified)
Cost: 5m; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (dramatic action); Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: The Spider’s Trap Door
This Charm mimics the effects of its prerequisite Charm, but is a dramatic action (half an hour) that allows the character to conceal a unit from detection. This can be a group of barbarians in the jungles of the Southeast, a street gang in Nexus or awkward socialites at a large party.
The player rolls a Wits-based dice pool (usually combining it with Survival or Stealth) and conceals a unit with no greater a Magnitude that his Essence. The unit must be cooperative, and it receives the same protections from detection as the Spider’s Trap Door.
If the unit moves appreciably from its position or deviates from the character’s instructions to remain concealed, the deception is ruined. Individuals who peel off from the unit cease to be concealed but do not ruin it for the entire unit.

SUNSET HIBISCUS
Lords of Creation
Cost: 3m; Mins: Wits 5, Essence 6; Type: Simple Keywords: Combo-OK Duration: One scene or indefinite Prerequisite Charms: Secure Den Prana
Just as the Lunar makes himself and things disappear, he conceals Essence from those who can see such things. Used on himself, neither his Essence trait nor his Charms or artifacts make him more visible to those using Essence sight (such as All-Encompassing Sorcerer's Sight). He may likewise use the Charm on others. Using Sunset Hibiscus on artifacts or on extant Essence effects (such as enduring Charms or spells) renders them invisible to Essence sight, though the Lunar must be able to see them to target them in the first place. Used on a person, the Charm always lasts one scene. When used on an object or intangible collection of Essence, the Lunar may commit the Essence longer for an indefinite effect.
Uses of Sunset Hibiscus are invisible to all forms of Essence sight. This Charm has no effect on Countermagic spells.

FLUID ESSENCE REFINEMENT
Lords of Creation
Cost: —; Mins: Wits 7, Essence 6; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Sunset Hibiscus
The Stewards' magic is not overt. This Charm perma­nently enhances the Lunar's capabilities. The character's use of Essence is subtle, making it difficult for opponents to find and target. When a foreign effect threatens to suppress, manipulate or otherwise adversely affect a Charm, spell or supernatural effect the Lunar has invoked or created, add an amount equal to the Lunar's Wits to the difficulty to do so. When there is no roll (and thus no difficulty to increase), the foreign effect fails. Add a number of successes equal to the Lunar's Essence to any opposed rolls to determine which effect overrides the other.

FROZEN RIPPLE LAIR
Lords of Creation
Cost: 14m, 2wp; Mins: Wits 6, Essence 7; Type: Simple; Keywords: Obvious, Wyld; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Secure Den Prana, Blinking Eye of Chaos
This Charm is identical to Secure Den Prana, but the Lunar declares a time differential for her den in Elsewhere. Time within the redoubt moves faster or slower than it does in Creation by a factor equal to or less than the Lunar's Essence.

SUBTLE CHAMELEON PRACTICE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+3m); Mins: Wits 5, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: The Spider’s Trap Door
By focusing additional Essence into her magics, a Lunar is able to veil her wonders in the faceless aspect of the new moon. For a three-mote surcharge, any expenditure of Peripheral Essence may be considered Personal for the purpose of contributing to the Lunar’s anima banner display.

IMPLAUSIBLE LUNAR PANOPLY 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+3m); Mins: Wits 4, Essence 4; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Obvious; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Many-Pockets Meditation
This Charm permanently enhances its prerequisite, allowing the Lunar to pay a three-mote surcharge to store Elsewhere objects (per the Charm Concept box on p. 213 of Exalted) that are too large to be lifted with one hand. This causes the Charm’s invocation time to change from Speed 5 to five long ticks, though retrieving an object is as fast as normal.
More than one Wyld Hunt has retreated in sudden disarray when an apparently unarmed Steward threw aside his cloak to reveal a light implosion bow.

LIMITLESS ARGENT PROTECTORATE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: 20m, 1wp; Mins: Wits 6, Essence 5; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Shaping; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Secure Den Prana
This Charm functions identically to Wyld-Shaping Technique (see Exalted, p. 216), save that it may be used only inside a den created by Secure Den Prana. Only lands, people and wealth may be created, and none of these creations are able to endure outside the boundaries of the Lunar’s den.
As an additional benefit, if the character also knows Invisible Warren Creation, she may shape a den-world with a total radius of (Essence x 1,000) miles, also doubling the Magnitude of the den-world’s potential population. 
A Wits 9+, Essence 8+ version of this Charm exists, with Frozen Ripple Lair (see Dreams of the First Age: Book Two—Lords of Creation, p. 76) as its prerequisite, which extends its benefit to such time-dilated dens. It also extends its Invisible Warren Creation benefits, as described, if the character knows Time-Sheltered Cove.

TIME-SHELTERED COVE 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+16m); Mins: Wits 7, Essence 8; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Social, War; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Frozen Ripple Lair
By paying a 16-mote surcharge upon activation of Frozen Ripple Lair, the Lunar may enhance it with the same benefits detailed in Invisible Warren Creation (see The Manual of Exalted Power—The Lunars, p. 191).

WORLDS-WITHIN COCOON TACTIC 
Glories of the Most High
Cost: — (+16m, 1wp); Mins: Wits 8, Essence 9; Type: Permanent; Keywords: None; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Frozen Ripple Lair
This Charm permanently upgrades its prerequisite, allowing the Lunar to add a 16-mote, one-Willpower surcharge to its activation cost to double the permitted time differential.

WALKING ON MOONLIGHT
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 10m; Mins: Wits 5, Essence 4; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Secure Den Prana
The Lunar’s anima condenses into a shimmering path of pure moonlight that arches up and into the air, stretching far away into the distance before her. This path, which quickly levels out and runs a mile above the ground, is shorter than it appears, spanning the hidden gaps in the night sky that only Luna knows, and will speed a Steward’s trip between her territories.
The character may only activate this Charm at night within the boundaries of a territory she owns, and she may only use it to travel directly toward another territory that she owns (see Exalted, p. 238). The Lunar doubles the amount of ground she covers while she proceeds along this moonbeam path, after the effects of all other Charms or magic. This Charm automatically ends when the sun rises; Lunars are thus advised to take to the ground before dawn, lest they suddenly find themselves bereft of road while a mile up in the air. The Lunar may activate this Charm at the next sunset to resume her journey if she has not diverted more than two miles from the course to her destination during the day, despite being outside of an owned territory.

OFFENSIVE CHARMS

COLD BREATH OF THE MOON
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 4m; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 2; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK, Sickness; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
Luna protects Creation from the terrors beyond its borders, but she also uses her light to lure those horrors into the world, that they might be her prey. The Lunar is able to share a portion of those horrors which walk by the light of the moon with a target, afflicting them with night terrors. To use this Charm, the Lunar must crouch above a sleeping individual and spend a moment studying the rising Essence of their dreams. Seizing upon a momentary instability, the Lunar breathes a nightmare into the target’s lungs. The Lunar must roll (Wits + Occult) against a difficulty of the target’s ([Perception + Awareness] / 2); success infects her with night terrors for a number of nights equal to the Lunar’s Essence, while failure causes the target to prematurely awaken.
The nightmares created by this Charm are harrowing, nonsensical, and often feature the world inexplicably and relentlessly changing around the target, melting into ever more distressing forms, filled with terrible monsters. Upon awakening from such a nightmare, the character rolls Conviction as normal. Success indicates that the character simply gains no Willpower. Failure leaves the character disoriented throughout the remainder of the day, suffering a -1 internal penalty to all actions as vague recollections of awful sights and the cold, merciless light of the moon prey on her thoughts. A botch causes the character to suffer a -1 internal penalty, as described above, and to lose a point of Willpower. This Charm may not be used on a target again until the original night terrors have run their course.

MOTH-TO-FLAMES DEFENSE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 6m; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
Like a moth to a flame, a Lunar may be drawn to the weaving of a spell. With this Charm, she may feed on the shaping sorcery’s Essence, breaking the spell before it can be cast. By paying six motes, the Lunar enhances an unarmed physical attack against a target taking a Shape Sorcery action, her attacking limb swirling with silver streamers of raw chaos. Should the Lunar roll damage against the target, the target suffers automatic knockdown, increasing the difficulty of the (Wits + Occult) roll to maintain her Shape Sorcery action to 4. If the casting is successfully broken, the Lunar draws in five motes of Essence, streamers of energy from the broken spell flowing into her body as the magic dissipates. This Charm is equally effective against Shape Necromancy and Weave Protocol actions.

THOUSANDFOLD WASP DANCE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 3; Type: Simple (Speed 5, DV -1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: One scene; Prerequisite Charms: None
The Lunar takes a moment to gather all the aggression, frustration, and stress flitting through her mind and spirit. Infusing these irritants with Essence, the Exalt releases them into the world, where they bedevil her foes. The Lunar breathes out a swarm of irritating, biting insects, which fill an area with a diameter of (Essence x 10) yards, centered somewhere within (Wits x 30) yards. All characters inside of this swarm that the Lunar does not selectively decide to spare the swarm’s wrath are subjected to an environmental damage effect (Damage 1B/action, trauma 3) and suffer a -1 external environmental penalty. The swarm shrinks at a rate of one yard per tick if exposed to an appropriate environmental hazard, at the Storyteller’s discretion, such as a burning building or a Terrestrial Exalt’s iconic anima banner. Likewise, the swarm may be destroyed by sufficiently destructive area-of-effect attacks such as Total Annihilation, again at the Storyteller’s discretion.
At Essence 4+ the Lunar may use a miscellaneous action once per action tick to control the swarm, causing it to move according to her will. The swarm drifts at a rate of five yards per tick when subjected to such control.

REACTION CHARMS

MEERKAT ALERTNESS PRACTICE
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Wits Excellency
Lunars are alert at all times. This Charm supplements a Join Battle, Join War or Join Debate action by adding (Essence) successes.

FURIOUS UNHAPPY RECOURSE
Corebook
Cost: 6m; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 9); Keywords: Combo-OK, Counterattack; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Meerkat Alertness Practice
Lunars under assault burst out from under their foes’ many blows. This Charm provides a counterattack at the character’s full dice pool, to which the character adds a number of successes equal to whatever onslaught penalty she suffered in this round of attack resolution. If the attack hits, the target’s player rolls (Stamina + Resistance) at a difficulty of the Lunar’s Essence. Failure indicates that the attacker’s flurry has been disrupted and immediately ends.

HUNGRY EAGLE METHOD
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive (Step 9); Keywords: Combo-Basic, Counterattack; Duration: Until next action; Prerequisite Charms: Furious Unhappy Recourse
The overprotective bird pecks anything that comes near her nest or her food. Activating this Charm allows a character to make a counterattack against any person who makes a Melee or Martial Arts attack against her until her next action.

SILVER-SWIFT RETORT
Corebook
Cost: 2m per; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 2; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Meerkat Alertness Practice
Stewards save their arguments for the right time. This Charm supplements a social attack, allowing the Lunar to recover more quickly after making her point. Each two motes spent on Silver-Swift Retort reduce the attack’s Speed by 1, to a minimum of 3.

SERPENT’S TOOTH REPLY
Corebook
Cost: 5m; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Social; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Silver-Swift Retort
In response to a social attack that may be blocked, the character makes a statement that both refutes her opponent’s argument and drives her own home. The player rolls her appropriate (Attribute + Ability) pair for the sort of social attack she wishes to make and applies those successes as an external penalty after the character’s normal Parry Mental Defense Value. If any successes are left over (that were unnecessary to defeat the incoming attack), these plus her Essence become the successes on her social counterattack.

SOLDIER BEE EMULATION EXTRACTION
Lords of Creation
Cost: 4m; Mins: Wits 6, Essence 6; Type: Reflexive (Step 2); Keywords: Combo-OK, Counterattack, Obvious, Shaping; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Hungry Eagle Method, Secure Den Prana
The Steward creates invisible pouches of Elsewhere that he uses in combat. For the Charm's duration, any person who attacks him risks losing his weapon into one of these pockets. Only a body's natural weapons are safe. Any attack the Lunar successfully parries or dodges slips into a pouch, unless he chooses otherwise. Players of characters who suc­cessfully strike the Lunar roll (Wits + [relevant Ability]) at a difficulty equal to the Lunar's Wits, unless the Lunar chooses otherwise. Failure indicates that the weapon disappears into Elsewhere. No more weapons disappear than a number equal to the Lunar's Essence. The Charm lasts until the Lunar releases the commitment, at which time the weapons fall to the ground before the people from whom he stole them.

MOTH-TO-FLAMES DEFENSE
Ink Monkeys
Cost: 6m; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 3; Type: Reflexive (Step 1); Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious, Touch; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
Like a moth to a flame, a Lunar may be drawn to the weaving of a spell. With this Charm, she may feed on the shaping sorcery’s Essence, breaking the spell before it can be cast. By paying six motes, the Lunar enhances an unarmed physical attack against a target taking a Shape Sorcery action, her attacking limb swirling with silver streamers of raw chaos. Should the Lunar roll damage against the target, the target suffers automatic knockdown, increasing the difficulty of the (Wits + Occult) roll to maintain her Shape Sorcery action to 4. If the casting is successfully broken, the Lunar draws in five motes of Essence, streamers of energy from the broken spell flowing into her body as the magic dissipates. This Charm is equally effective against Shape Necromancy and Weave Protocol actions.

SPEED AND EXTRA ACTION CHARMS

WASP STING BLUR
Corebook
Cost: 2m per tick; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 2; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK, Fury-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Any Wits Excellency
This Charm is equal to the Dexterity Charm of same name.

MANY-ARMED MONKEY STYLE
Corebook (Modified)
Cost: 3m per action; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 2; Type: Extra Action; Keywords: Combo-OK, Obvious; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Wasp Sting Blur
Lunars act with furious, unrelenting speed. This Charm is a magical flurry of two or more actions of any sort. Each action costs three motes, including the first, and the character can buy up to (her Essence) actions. These actions can be used for any purpose but cannot be divided into flurries.

BLINKING EYE OF CHAOS
Corebook
Cost: 10m, 1wp; Mins: Wits 5, Essence 4; Type: Extra Action; Keywords: Obvious, Wyld; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: Many-Armed Monkey Style
With mastery of the Wyld comes a deeper understanding of its tides. Sometimes, the Wyld bends time, accelerating or slowing this aspect of Creation. In the Deep Wyld and Pure Chaos, eddies of bent time can flow right past each other. Luna’s Chosen are immune to such effects, but by predicting and perhaps calling for such an eddy, they can force it over their enemies and gain a temporary edge.
The character directs the fight into an eddy of slow time—or perhaps creates one; cause and effect can be hard to discern in the Wyld. Everyone else involved in the scene (apart from other Lunars) slows down. In effect, the character acts once, then gets to act again in the same tick as though she had waited for her next action. To everyone else, she appears to move and bend impossibly as time blurs their perceptions. For the Lunar, each action is fully independent: She may flurry in each, and use Charms or Combos in each without conflicting with the use of this Charm or Charms or Combos used in the other action.

SURVIVAL CHARMS

LODESTONE RECKONING MANNER
Corebook
Cost: 2m; Mins: Wits 2, Essence 1; Type: Reflexive; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: None
Similar to a swallow flying south, the Lunar knows his way. With this Charm active, the character can never become lost. He has an absolute direction sense, and he can perfectly retrace the path he trod in the last 24 hours. For this Charm to function, the Lunar must have checked his position against the moon sometime within the last 24 hours. Otherwise, the Charm cannot be activated or ends.

BLOOD ON THE WIND
Corebook
Cost: 4m, 1wp; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 3; Type: Supplemental; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Indefinite; Prerequisite Charms: Lodestone Reckoning Manner
This Charm is identical to the Perception Charm.

PREDATOR AND PREY RECOGNITION
Corebook
Cost: 1m; Mins: Wits 3, Essence 3; Type: Simple; Keywords: Combo-OK; Duration: Instant; Prerequisite Charms: None
The Lunar sniffs at the local game trails and looks at her surroundings, then she is master of her domain. On a successful (Wits + Survival) roll, she knows the species that are common in the area, which are good food and which are dangerous, for a region (successes x 10) miles in diameter. Being in Wyld areas, or in areas where foreign animals have been imported, can levy a one- to four-die penalty to the roll.

SILVER LUNAR RESOLUTION
Ink Monkeys (Modified)
Cost: —; Mins: Wits 4, Essence 3; Type: Permanent; Keywords: Native; Duration: Permanent; Prerequisite Charms: Any Wits Excellency
This Charm is identical to its counterpart in Stamina (see The Manual of Exalted Power—The Lunars, p. 158), save for its different Attribute placement (in all points where the two Charms differ save for Attribute placement, this version of Silver Lunar resolution is considered to take precedent). The two are, in fact, the same Charm, and so a purchase of Silver Lunar Resolution in Wits counts against the total maximum number of purchases for the Charm in any Attribute. Silver Lunar Resolution is also available in Charisma.



